the production process of almost all modern steels involves austenitization formation of the austenite phase upon continuous heating . many of the microstructural features and properties that are obtained upon subsequent cooling are to a large extend determined by the evolution of the microstructure and chemical inhomogeneities during austenitization . In spite of its importance , austenitization so far has received much less attention than the transformations on cooling ; however , the interest is continuously increasing , especially for the development of new types of steels ( dual - phase steel , TRansformation - induced plasticity steel etc. ) . the aim of the thesis is to develop knowledge and to gain better understanding of the formation of the austenite microstructure in steel during heating , e.g. austenite nucleation kinetics , austenite growth modes and morphologies , redistribution of carbon between the phases during the transformatio 
nanostructured bainite - austenite steels are applied in the armours construction due to their excellent combination of strength and ductility which enables to lower the armour weight and to improve the protection efficiency . mechanical properties of the bainite - austenite steels can be controlled in the wide range by chemical composition and heat treatment . In the paper the results of investigation comprising measuring of quasi - static mechanical properties , dynamic yield stress and firing tests of bainite - austenite steel NANOS-BA ® are presented . reported results show that the investigated bainite - austenite steel can be used for constructing add-on armour and that the armour fulfils requirements of protection level <nUm> of STANAG <nUm> . obtained reduction in weight of the tested NANOS-BA ® plates in comparison with the present solutions is about <nUm> % 
masters research - master of philosophy (MPhil)The aim of this investigation was to examine the nature of the normal stabilisation of austenite in a <nUm> % C , <nUm> % Cr , <nUm> % Mo steel . to assist in the investigation a literature review was made of the various theories which exist and experimental work carried out on both ferrous and non-ferrous allows . initially x-ray diffraction was chosen as a technique for measuring the amount of retained austenite in the steel and this was developed until the required degree of accuracy was attained . samples of the steel were given different sets of heat treatment conditions and then analysed for austentite content . it was found that the thermal stabilisation characteristics of the steel were similar to those found by other workers . the results indicated that the embryo theory of stabilisation was best in explaining the characteristics of stabilisation . x-ray diffraction samples were thinned down and examined by thing film electron microscopy . it was found that clarification of any of the theories by this technique was not possible for the allow used as the austenite transformed to martensite during the thinning down operation 
modeling of microstructural evolution has become a powerful tool for materials and process design by providing quantitative relationships for microstructure , composition and processing . insufficient attention has been paid to predicting the austenite grain growth of microalloyed steel and the effect of undissolved microalloys . In this research , we attempted to calculate a mathematical model for austenite grain growth of <nUm> % Nb steel , which can account for abnormal grain growth . the quantitative calculation of austenite grain growth generated from this model fit well with the experimental grain growth data obtained during reheating of niobium steels . the results of this study showed that increasing the temperature increases the austenite grain size , with a sharp gradient observed at higher temperatures 
high chromium ferritic - austenitic steel is widely applied as a constructional material due to its good corrosion resistance . the possibility to obtain nitrided layers on this steel could widen these applications thanks to producing hard and wear resistance protective coatings . however , this process is not well known and investigated . the paper presents results of investigations on the nitrided layer growth on ferritic - austenitic steel during gas nitriding . particular attention is paid to importance of technological parameters such as temperature and activation treatment for layer formation . process was conducted in ammonia atmosphere with <nUm> % of ammonia in temperature range <nUm> ° C – <nUm> ° C 
grain growth during austenitization has a negative effect on fatigue strength . several methods have been investigated in order to determine an accurate method of measuring the austenite grain size of <nUm> steel . the McQuaid - ehn method , an industry standard for evaluating austenite grain size , has been recognized to produce inaccurate results due to the coarsening of grains during extended austenitizing . A method utilized for hypoeutectoid steels , outlined by the ASTM - E112 standard , is investigated to potentially obtain more accurate results by reducing the duration of austenitizing . studies regarding effective etching procedures for revealing austenite grains without austenitizing are also addressed . samples are prepared by heat treating to induce temper embrittlement in order to improve etching at these grain boundaries . although temper embrittlement is undesirable for components in service , the process proved to effectively delineate austenite grain boundaries when etched with a picric acid based reagent . this method may be utilized to acquire an accurate measurement of austenite grain size during processing . the picric acid reagent was unsuccessful when applied to the McQuaid - ehn and hypoeutectoid samples . the use of a nital etchant also proved to be ineffective for the McQuaid - ehn , hypoeutectoid and temper embrittlement methods utilized by this investigation 
we introduce the gaussian process model for the empirical modelling of the formation of austenite during the continuous heating of steels . A previous paper has examined the application of neural networks to this problem , but the gaussian process model is a more general probabilistic model which avoids some of the arbitrariness of neural networks , and is somewhat more amenable to interpretation . we demonstrate that the model leads to an improvement in the significance of the trends of the Ac <nUm> and Ac <nUm> temperatures as a function of the chemical composition and heating rate . In some cases , these predicted trends are more plausible than those obtained with the neural network analysis . additionally , we show that many of the trace alloying elements present in steels are irrelevant in determining the austenite formation temperatures . <nUm> introduction the formation of austenite is an important component in the heat treatment of steels . the temperature at which austenite begins to form during th. . 
behavior of materials and structures in fatigue non-proportional loading conditions , characterized by the principal axes rotation during fatigue cycles , is an important issue because of its impact on fatigue properties . the article presents results of an analysis ofmicrostructural steel X5CrNi18-10 , subjected to proportional fatigue loadings : torsion and push - pull , as well as non-proportional ones.Variability of the principal axes positions of non-proportional loadings was obtained by using a loading program with alternately realized torsion and tension - compression blocks . the work includes an analysis of one - phase microstructure and microhardness tests of fatigue samples were carried out . the cyclic loading value accepted for the tests caused an martensite transformation induced by plastic strain and occurrence of slip bands in the grains of austenite . A comparative analysis revealed differences in the transformation intensity , depending on the type of applied loading and on the degree of its non-proportionality 
dissimilar metal connections are prone to frequent failures . these failures are attributed to the difference in the mechanical properties across the weld , the coefficients of thermal expansion of the two types of steels and the resulting creep at the interface . for the weld analyzed in this research , it was shown that corrosion measurements can be used for a proper evaluation of the quality of weld material and for the prediction of whether or not the material , after the applied welding process , can be in service without failures . it was found that the corrosion of the weld analyzed in this research resulted from the simultaneous activity of different types of corrosion . In this study , electrochemical techniques including polarization and metallographic analysis were used to analyze the corrosion of a weld material of ferrite and austenitic stainless steels . based on surface , chemical and electrochemical analyses , it was concluded that corrosion occurrence was the result of the simultaneous activity of contact corrosion ( ferrite and austenitic material conjuction ) , stress corrosion ( originating from deformed ferrite structure ) and inter-granular corrosion ( due to chromium carbide precipitation ) . the value of corrosion potential of – <nUm> V shows that this weld , after the thermal treatment , is not able to repassivate a protective oxide film 
the austenite grain growth behavior of Ti - bearing and Ti - free steel was investigated using confocal laser scanning microscope ( CLSM ) and transmission electron microscope ( TEM ). samples were held for <nUm> min at 1123-1473K and then austenite grain sizes for different holding time at a series of temperatures were measured.The results show that austenite grain size of both steels increases with the increase of temperature.Besides,the austenite grain size of both steels grows with the holding time,which meets parabolic equation.The second phase particle was observed.The equation of ostwald ripening was introduced to calculate the size of particle,and the volume fraction equation of second phase particle was applied to calculate the volume fraction of particle.Meanwhile,the modified gladman model was adopted to predict austenite grain growth.The predicted results agree well with the measured results 
abstract . the effect of the degree of supersaturation in a coarse - grained h-ferrite matrix on the consequent isothermal transformation of h-ferrite to austenite at <nUm> ‖ in a <nUm> duplex stainless steel has been investigated . the results indicate that rapid cooling ( at the cooling rate 100|| / s ) to the ambient temperature after 135P ‖ solution treatment of h-ferrite matrix leads to a very high supersaturated solid solution state , which significantly enhances the formation of the intragranularly nucleated austenite in the subsequent isothermal transformation at 1150|| . the feature of the intragranularly nucleated austenite has been revealed ; it appears that after the initial nucleation events for intragranularly nucleated austenite , subsequent small particles of austenite can form sympathetically on the ferrite / austenite interface 
AISI <nUm> alloy steel is widely applied in the manufacture of various parts such as gears , rams , and spindles due to its good performance of strength , toughness , and wear resistance . the former researches most focused on its deformation and recrystallization behaviors under high temperature . however , the evolution laws of austenite grain growth were rarely studied . this behavior also plays an important role in the mechanical properties of parts made of this steel . In this study , samples are heated to a certain temperature of <nUm> K , <nUm> K , <nUm> K , and <nUm> K at a heating rate of <nUm> K per second and hold for different times of <nUm> s , <nUm> s , <nUm> s , <nUm> s , and <nUm> s before being quenched with water . the experimental results suggest that the austenite grains enlarge with increasing temperature and holding time . A mathematical model and an application developed in matlab environment are established on the basis of previous works and experimental results to predict austenite grains size in hot deformation processes . the predicted results are in good agreement with experimental results which indicates that the model and the application are reliable 
the unique microstructure of nanostructured bainite consists of very slender bainitic ferrite plates and high carbon retained austenite films . As a consequence , the reported properties are opening a wide range of different commercial uses . however , bainitic transformation follows the T0 criteria , i. e. the incomplete reaction phenomena , which means that the microstructure is not thermodynamically stable because the bainitic transformation stops well before austenite reaches an equilibrium carbon level . this article aims to study the different microstructural changes taking place when nanostructured bainite is destabilized by austempering for times well in excess of that strictly necessary to end the transformation . results indicate that while bainitic ferrite seems unaware of the extended heat treatment , retained austenite exhibits a more receptive behavior to itSpanish ministerio de economia y competitividad plan nacional de I + d + I ( <nUm> – <nUm> ) for supporting their research under the project MAT2010-15330Peer reviewe 
purpose : the main purpose of this paper was to estimate the effect of the dynamic conditions resulting fromdeformation process on the austenite decomposition into ferrite and pearlite ( A-F+P ) in the commercial carbon steel.Design / methodology / approach : In the paper flow stress curves and microstructure of deformed steel within therange of discontinuous ( austenite to pearlite ) and austenite to ferrite transformation at different strain rates andcooling rates were presented . the microstructure of hot deformed samples was tested by means of an opticaland electron microscopy.Findings : it was shown that the flow localization during hot deformation and preferred growth of the pearlitecolonies at shear bands was very limited . the most characteristic feature of the microstructure observed for hotdeformed samples was the development of carbides that nucleated along elongated ferrite grains.Research limitations / implications : In spite of intense strain hardening due to deformation and phasetransformation overlapping , microstructural observation of deformed samples did not reveal significant flowlocalization effects or heterogeneous distribution of the eutectoid components . therefore , complementary testsshould be carried out on the steel with higher strain above the <nUm> value.Originality / value : there was no data referred to particular features of the dynamic processes , such as dynamicrecrystallization and recovery , dynamic precipitation , that can occur during austenite decomposition into ferrite,and especially during discontinuous transformation of austenite to pearlite 
the model parameters for the normalized 1054V1 material were compared to parameters previously generated for <nUm> steel , and the transformation behavior was relatively consistent . validation of the model predictions by heating into the austenite plus undissolved ferrite phase field and rapidly quenching resulted in reasonable predictions when compared to the measured volume fractions from optical metallography . the hot rolled 1054V1 material , which had a much coarser grain size and a non-equilibrium volume fraction of pearlite , had significantly different model parameters and the on heating transformation behavior of this material was less predictable with the established model . the differences in behavior is consistent with conventional wisdom that normalized micro-structure produce a more consistent response to processing , and it reinforces the need for additional work in this area 
the influence of austenitization treatment of a 13Cr6Ni2Mo supermartensitic stainless steel ( X2CrNiMoV13-5-2 ) on austenite formation during reheating and on the fraction of austenite retained after tempering treatment is measured and analyzed . the results show the formation of austenite in two stages . this is probably due to inhomogeneous distribution of the austenite - stabilizing elements Ni and Mn , resulting from their slow diffusion from martensite into austenite and carbide and nitride dissolution during the second , higher temperature , stage . A better homogenization of the material causes an increase in the transformation temperatures for the martensite - to - austenite transformation and a lower retained austenite fraction with less variability after tempering . furthermore , the martensite - to - austenite transformation was found to be incomplete at the target temperature of <nUm> K ( <nUm> ° C ) , which is influenced by the previous austenitization treatment and the heating rate . the activation energy for martensite - to - austenite transformation was determined by a modified kissinger equation to be approximately <nUm> and <nUm> kJ / mol for the first and the second stages of transformation , respectively . both values are much higher than the activation energy found during isothermal treatment in a previous study and are believed to be effective activation energies comprising the activation energies of both mechanisms involved , i.e. , nucleation and growth.Materials science and EngineeringMechanical , maritime and materials engineerin 
two kinds of austenite grow from d-ferrite during the cooling of the duplex stainless steel weld deposits studied here , widmanstatten plates and allotriomorphs which precipitate at δ – δ grain boundaries . it is found using microtexture measurements that the preferred crystallographic orientation of the widmanstatten austenite can be estimated using established theory if it is assumed that there is an interaction between external stress and the growing plates . it is also demonstrated that the widmanstatten and allotriomorphic forms of austenite may not be identically oriented even when the former appears to originate from the latter ; this may be a consequence of differences in the transformation mechanisms of these two forms of austenite 
the effect of retained austenite on the mechanical behavior of quenched and tempered steels depends on its thermodynamic stability against mechanically - induced martensitic transformation during loading . In this work , the stability of retained austenite is characterized by the m(s)(sigma) temperature and experimentally determined values of the m(s)(sigma) temperature are compared with model predictions . the comparison suggests that significant carbon stabilization of the retained austenite occurs during tempering for both , high and low temperature , austenitizing treatments employed . In addition , it appears that the assumption of a fully - biased rather than a fully - random distribution of nucleation - site potencies is in better agreement with the observed experimental behavior . finally , the stress state dependence of the retained austenite stability could account for the mechanical behavior variation reported in literature 
magnetic properties ( coercive force and saturation magnetization ) of SAE <nUm> steel , heat treated in different ways , were measured in a vibrating sample magnetometer . four soaking temperatures were investigated : <nUm> ° C , <nUm> ° C , <nUm> ° C and <nUm> ° C . the oil - quenched samples were tempered at different temperatures between the range of <nUm> ° C and <nUm> ° C . the increase of the soaking temperature promotes the decrease of the saturation magnetization , which is mainly due to the retained austenite in the steel . this austenite transforms into bainite during tempering between <nUm> ° C and <nUm> ° C . the saturation magnetization measurements were used to quantify the amount of retained austenite in the different samples . the coercive force of the steel varied from <nUm> Oe ( <nUm> A / m ) to <nUm> Oe ( <nUm> A / m ) , depending on the heat treatment condition 
the grain growth behaviour during reheating between <nUm> oC and <nUm> oC of as-cast Al-Nb steel ( containing <nUm> wt % Nb and <nUm> wt % Al ) and rolled Nb - containing steel ( containing <nUm> wt % Nb and <nUm> wt % Al ) have been investigated . In particular the role of microalloying element segregation during casting and , hence the spatial distribution of microalloying precipitates , on grain boundary pinning during reheating has been considered . the Al-Nb containing steel has been examined in separate initial conditions , including as-cast ( segregated structure ) , homogenised and forged ( reduced separation of segregated bands ) samples . it was found that microalloy segregation occurred between the dendritic and interdendritic regions , where the secondary dendrite arm spacing ( SDAS ) was <nUm> ± <nUm> mm . Nb showed strong segregation into the interdendritic regions resulting in a higher number density of Nb(C,N) precipitates ( <nUm> × <nUm> / mm2 ) compared to the dendritic region ( <nUm> × <nUm> / mm2 ) . however , Al did not show strong segregation resulting in relatively well - distributed AlN precipitates in the matrix ( <nUm> × <nUm> / mm2 in the interdendritic region and <nUm> × <nUm> / mm2 in the dendritic region ) . after forging , the separation between the segregated bands was reduced to <nUm> ± <nUm> mm from the previous <nUm> ± <nUm> mm in the as-cast sample . the increased Nb content in the rolled Nb - containing steel compared to the Al-Nb steel gave a greater extent of segregation in the solute - enriched regions resulting in a larger number density of Nb(C,N) present ( <nUm> × <nUm> / mm2 ) , whilst the separation between in the segregated bands in the as-rolled Nb - containing steel was <nUm> ± <nUm> mm 
the design of thermomechanical processing schedules to control microstructures requires the knowledge of the austenite - to - ferrite transformation start temperature ( Ar $ sb3 $ ) . further , in curved mold continuous casting , transverse cracking occurs during the unbending procedure to straighten the solidified curved strand , and this can also strongly depend on the austenite - to - ferrite transformation . In both of these industrial processes , during deformation , the temperature usually decreases continuously . thus , two new methods to determine the Ar $ sb3 $ , based on continuous cooling compression ( CCC ) and continuous cooling torsion ( CCT ) , have been developed . while the latter is applicable for low and high strains , the former can be only used for low strains.The aim of this investigation was to determine the effect of deformation in the single phase austenite and two phase austenite plus ferrite region on the transformation and dynamic transformation behaviour of austenite - to - ferrite . CCC tests were carried out on a low carbon steel and the influence of strain , strain rate , cooling rate and austenite grain size , was examined.During the application of strain , the generated dislocations cause an increase in stored strain energy . this energy adds to the driving force for austenite - to - ferrite transformation , increasing the kinetics of this transformation , raising the Ar $ sb3 $ in this way . the faster kinetics leads to a finer polygonal ferrite grain size after transformation . In contrast to the effect of increasing strain , accelerated cooling rates decrease the transformation start temperature , but can still lead to grain refinement via high nucleation rates . by increasing the cooling rate , fine acicular ferrite with a high aspect ratio could be obtained . since , the ferrite grain size is directly related to austenite grain size , by varying austenite grain size , a wide range of ferrite grain sizes could be obtained . finally , deforming close to the Ar $ sb3 $ maximizes the strain effect on dynamically transformed ferrite 
the progress of the martensite ( aC/ ) to austenite ( c ) phase transformation has been thoroughly investigated at different temperatures during the continuous heating of a cold - rolled precipitation hardening metastable stainless steel at a heating rate of <nUm> K / s . heat - treated samples have been characterized using different experimental complementary techniques : high - resolution dilatometry , magnetization , and thermoelectric power ( TEP ) measurements , micro-hardness- vickers testing , optical / scanning electron microscopy , and tensile testing . the two - step transformation behavior observed is thought to be related to the presence of a pronounced chemical banding in the initial microstructure . this banding has been characterized using electron probe microanalysis . unexpectedly , dilatometry measurements seem unable to locate the end of the transformation accurately , as this technique does not detect the second step of this transformation ( last <nUm> pct of it ) . it is shown that once the starting ( AS ) and finishing ( AF ) transformation temperatures have been estimated by magnetization measurements , the evolution of the volume fractions of austenite and martensite can be evaluated by TEP or micro-hardness measurement quite reliably as compared to magnetization measurements . the mechanical response of the material after being heated to temperatures close to AS , AF , and ( AF - AS ) / <nUm> is also discussed.Peer reviewe 
microstructure and mechanical properties have been studied in CORRAX maraging steel during prolonged ageing up to <nUm> h at <nUm> K . strengthening of maraging steel was caused by the formation of an intermetallic phase enriched in Ni and Al that is an ordered B2 ( ClCs ) superlattice structure . precipitation hardening was accompanied by an increase in micro-hardness with peak hardness after about <nUm> h of ageing . after <nUm> h of ageing , the micro-hardness value is still high , corresponding to <nUm> % of the peak hardness . the reverse transformation of martensite to austenite does practically not take place during prolonged ageing as shown by x-ray and electron backscatter diffraction ( EBSD ) analysis . the experimentally determined amount of austenite ( 1-2 vol. % ) is in good agreement with the calculated value ( about <nUm> vol. % ) 
the diffusion of hydrogen in austenite is slower than in ferrite . experiments have been conducted to study the behaviour of hydrogen in a nanostructured steel sample consisting of a mixture of thin plates of bainitic ferrite and intervening films of retained austenite , with the latter phase present in a quantity larger than the percolation threshold , i.e. it has three - dimensional connectivity . the structure was then heat treated to control the fraction of austenite , and hence to study the role of hydrogen when the austenite decomposes below the value required to sustain percolation . the experiments have involved both thermal desorption analysis and permeation , and when combined with theoretical analysis , indicate a significant influence of percolating austenite in hindering the passage of hydrogen into the steel during hydrogen charging , and its permeation through the composite nanostructure . the effect is not as large as might be expected from a simple comparison of independent data on the diffusivities of hydrogen in the two lattices , because the effective diffusivity in ferrite is found to be much smaller than in the defect - free ferrite , owing to trapping effects . the morphology of the austenite is demonstrated to play a role by comparing with a sample containing a larger volume fraction of austenite but present as isolated grains which are ineffective to the permeation of hydrogen.The authors are grateful to the worshipful company of ironmongers , tata steel UK , the EPSRC , to theWorld class university programme of the national research foundation of korea , ministry of education , science and technology , project number R32 – <nUm> – <nUm> – <nUm> – <nUm> , and the POSCO steel innovation programme for supporting this work.This is the final published version . it 's also available from the royal society at http://rspa.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/470/2168/20140108.full 
the static recrystallization kinetics of hot deformed austenite were characterised by a combination of insitu laser - ultrasonics and stress relaxation measurements . samples were deformed in compression at temperatures of 850\uc2\ub0C and 900\uc2\ub0C . the applied strain was varied between <nUm> and <nUm> , whilst the strain rates used were <nUm> s-1 and <nUm> s-1 . At various points during annealing samples were quenched and analysed by optical microscopy . during recovery prior to recrystallization the ultrasonic velocity change and attenuation were almost constant . during recrystallization , the velocity change and attenuation decreased for the conditions imposed . the decrease in velocity change was mostly due to a change in the overall texture . the decrease in attenuation could be explained by a change in grain size . unfortunately , the additional effect of dislocation damping on attenuation could not be quantified . comparison of the stress relaxation kinetics with the observed decrease in ultrasonic velocity change and attenuation generally showed good agreement . from the attenuation measurements the grain sizes in the recrystallised structure for various applied strains were calculated . comparison with grain sizes determined from optical microscopy showed reasonable agreement considering the accuracy of the attenuation measurements and the assumptions made.Peer reviewed : YesNRC publication : ye 
two kinds of austenite grow from d-ferrite during the cooling of the duplex stainless steel weld deposits studied here , widmanstatten plates and allotriomorphs which precipitate at d – d grain boundaries . it is found using microtexture measurements that the preferred crystallographic orientation of the widmanstatten austenite can be estimated using established theory if it is assumed that there is an interaction between external stress and the growing plates . it is also demonstrated that the widmanstatten and allotriomorphic forms of austenite may not be identically oriented even when the former appears to originate from the latter ; this may be a consequence of differences in the transformation mechanisms of these two forms of austenite 
uniaxial straining experiments were performed on a rolled and annealed Si - alloyed TRIP ( transformation - induced plasticity ) steel sheet in order to assess the role of its microstructure on the mechanical stability of austenite grains with respect to martensitic transformation . the transformation behavior of individual metastable austenite grains was studied both at the surface and inside the bulk of the material using electron back - scattered diffraction ( EBSD ) and x-ray diffraction ( XRD ) by deforming the samples to different strain levels up to about <nUm> % . A comparison of XRD- and EBSD - results revealed that the retained austenite grains at the surface have a stronger tendency to transform than the austenite grains in the bulk of the material . the deformation - induced changes of individual austenite grains before and after straining were monitored with EBSD . three different types of austenite grains can be distinguished that have different transformation behaviors : austenite grains at the grain boundaries between ferrite grains , twinned austenite grains , and embedded austenite grains that are completely surrounded by a single ferrite grain . it was found that twinned austenite grains and the austenite grains present at the grain boundaries between larger ferrite grains typically transform first , i.e. are less stable , in contrast to austenite grains that are completely embedded in a larger ferrite grain . In the latter case , straining leads to rotations of the harder austenite grain within the softer ferrite matrix before the austenite transforms into martensite . the analysis suggests that austenite grain rotation behavior is also a significant contributing factor for enhancement of the ductility 
international audienceNonisothermal austenite grain growth kinetics under the influence of several combinations of Nb , Ti , and Mo containing complex precipitates has been studied in a microalloyed linepipe steel . the goal of this study is the development of a grain growth model to predict the austenite grain size in the weld heat affected zone ( HAZ ) . electron microscopy investigations of the as-received steel proved the presence of Ti - rich , Nb - rich , and Mo - rich precipitates . the steel has then been subjected to austenitizing heat treatments to selected peak temperatures at various heating rates that are typical for thermal cycles in the HAZ . thermal cycles have a strong effect on the final austenite grain size . using a mean field approach , a model is proposed for the dissolution of Nb - rich precipitates . this model has been coupled to a zener - type austenite grain growth model in the presence of pinning particles . this coupling leads to accurate prediction of the austenite grain size along the nonisothermal heating path simulating selected thermal profiles of the HAZ 
purpose : the subject of the work is analysis of author 's model for prediction of austenite microstructure of C-Mn steel based on sellar 's solution.Design / methodology / approach : the present study adopts the sellar 's solution for C-Mn steel to the prediction of phenomena occurring in the steel and the grain size of austeniteFindings : the developed model for the evolution of the austenite microstructure enables the correct determination of the grain size of austenite formed by multi-stage hot deformation.Research limitations / implications : the model is limitated only for selected steel groupPractical implications : the results obtained on the basis of this model will be utilized in the study for the determination of the distribution and state of microstructure in sections with complicated shapes after the rolling process.Originality / value : the modelling of microstructure is very importante problem . there are a lot of general models in literature , which can be used for predicting evolution of microstructure after rolling proces of steel , but the results obtained from them are different . there is a need for adapting the general model for a selected steel group to the prediction of phenomena occurring in the steel and the grain size of austenite formed by means of multi-stage deformation 
abstract . SAE <nUm> steel is typically used in the carburized condition for powertrain applications in the automotive industry , e.g. gears , roller bearings , camshafts . such steels always contain retained austenite to varying degrees in the as-hardened and also in the tempered microstructures . As well as retained austenite , heat treatment can produce residual stresses , which lead to distortion ( size and shape ) . the intent of this study was to investigate the effect of heat treatment parameters on the amount of retained austenite , residual stress and distortion in carburized SAE <nUm> steel . A specially designed specimen , the navy C - ring , was used for this study . the steel was first normalized prior to machining the navy C - ring specimens . the specimens were then heat treated by carburizing at <nUm> ° C or <nUm> ° C ( <nUm> ° F or <nUm> ° F ) at four levels of carbon potential ( <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> ) followed by oil quenching and tempering at either <nUm> ° C or <nUm> ° C ( <nUm> ° F or <nUm> ° F ) . the distortion of the C - ring was evaluated by dimensional measurements of the inner diameter , outer diameter , gap width and thickness for size distortion , as well as flatness , cylindricity and roundness for shape distortion . x-ray diffraction ( XRD ) techniques were used to determine the residual stress and the amount of retained austenite . the amount of retained austenite was also measured by optical metallography . the amount of retained austenite and the residual stress increased wit 
microstructure and mechanical properties have been studied in CORRAX maraging steel during prolonged ageing up to <nUm> h at <nUm> K . strengthening of maraging steel was caused by the formation of an intermetallic phase enriched in Ni and Al that is an ordered B2 ClCs superlattice structure . precipitation hardening was accompanied by an increase in micro hardness with maximum peak hardness after about <nUm> h of ageing . after <nUm> h of ageing , the micro hardness value is still high , corresponding to <nUm> of the peak hardness . the reverse transformation of martensite to austenite does practically not take place during prolonged ageing as shown by x ray and electron backscatter diffraction EBSD analysis . the experimentally determined amount of austenite <nUm> <nUm> vol. is in good agreement with the calculated value about <nUm> vol 
duplex type ferritic - austenitic stainless steels develop a specific two - phase banded structure upon thermo - mechanical pre-treatment and subsequent cold - rolling . the band - like morphology of ferrite and austenite imposes different conditions on plastic deformation of both constituent phases in comparison to one - phase ferritic and austenitic steels . In the present research the ingot of a model ferritic - austenitic steel of duplex type , produced by laboratory melt , was subjected to preliminary thermo - mechanical treatment including forging and solution annealing . afterwards cold - rolling was conducted over a wide deformation range . the investigations comprised examination of ferrite and austenite microstructures by means of optical and transmission electron microscopy and texture measurements after selected rolling reductions . the presented results indicate that deformation mechanisms operating within the bands of both constituent phases are essentially the same as compared to one - phase steels , however their appearance and contribution are changed upon deformation of two - phase banded structure . different deformation behavior within ferrite - austenite bands in duplex steels , visible especially at higher strains , considerably affects microstructure evolution and in consequence texture formation in both phases 
deformation and work hardening behavior of Fe-17Mn-0.02C steel containing e-martensite within the austenite matrix have been investigated by means of in situ microstructural observations and x-ray diffraction analysis . during deformation , the steel shows the deformation - induced transformation of austenite → e-martensite → a'-martensite as well as the direct transformation of austenite → a'-martensite . based on the calculation of changes in the fraction of each constituent phase , we found that the phase transformation of austenite → e-martensite is more effective in work hardening than that of e-martensite → a'-martensite . moreover , reverse transformation of e-martensite → austenite has also been observed during deformation . it originates from the formation of stacking faults within the deformed e-martensite , resulting in the formation of 6H-long periodic ordered structure . 
the influence of hydrogen on the microstructure of two types of austeno-ferritic duplex stainless steel ( cr26 - ni6 model steel and Cr22-Ni5-Mo3 commercial steel ) , each of them after two thermo - mechanical treatments , was investigated . the aim of this study was to reveal microstructural changes appearing during the hydrogen charging and particularly to clarify the occurrence of phase transformations induced by hydrogen . the specific microstructural changes in the ferrite ( alpha ) and austenite ( gamma ) of both types of steel were observed . A strong increase of dislocation density was noticed in the alpha phase . In the case of model steel , longer hydrogen charging times led to significant ferrite grain refinement . In the commercial steel , the strips and twin plates appeared in the ferrite after hydrogenation . the appearance of stacking faults was revealed in the gamma phase . the martensite laths appeared in austenite after longer hydrogenation times . it seems that the microstructural changes gave rise to the formation of microcracks in the alpha and gamma phases as well as on the alpha / gamma interphase boundaries . 
the role of austenite stability on fatigue performance of low - alloy TRIP steel <nUm> has been experimentally investigated . heat treatment process was used to produce varying microstructures , characterized by different initial retained austenite volume fraction and austenite stability . fatigue tests were carried out to determine the S-N fatigue curve of the materials . the austenite stability was measured with implementation of the ms s temperature detemination method . the effect of austenite stability on fatigue behavior was assessed by measurements of austenite volume fraction before and after fatigue testing . the experimental results showed that austenite stability impacts fatigue performance of TRIP steel in the high cycle regime 
austenite grain growth does not only play an important role in determining the mechanical properties of steel , but certain surface defects encountered in the continuous casting industry have also been attributed to the formation of large austenite grains . earlier research has seen innovative experimentation , the development of metallographic techniques to determine austenite grain size and the building of mathematical models to simulate the conditions pertaining to austenite grain growth during the continuous casting of steel . oscillation marks and depressions in the meniscus region of the continuously casting mold lead to retarded cooling of the strand surface , which in turn results in the formation of coarse austenite grains , but little is known about the mechanism and rate of formation of these large austenite grains . relevant earlier research will be briefly reviewed to put into context our recent in situ observations of the delta-ferrite to austenite phase transition . we have confirmed earlier evidence that very large delta-ferrite grains are formed very quickly in the single - phase region and that these large delta-ferrite grains are transformed to large austenite grains at low cooling rates . At the higher cooling rates relevant to the early stages of the solidification of steel in a continuously cast mold , delta-ferrite transforms to austenite by an apparently massive type of transformation mechanism . large austenite grains then form very quickly from this massive type of microstructure and on further cooling , austenite transforms to thin ferrite allotriomorphs on austenite grain boundaries , followed by widmanstatten plate growth , with almost no regard to the cooling rate . this observation is important because it is now well established that the presence of a thin ferrite film on austenite grain boundaries is the main cause of reduction in hot ductility . moreover , this reduction in ductility is exacerbated by the presence of large austenite grains 
abstract . TRIP ( transformation induced plasticity ) steel has a good combination of high strength and high plasticity which depend on the micro phase transformation and staking fault development greatly . C atom was typical alloying agent of austenite and plays an important role in austenite behavior , especially for staking fault nucleation . As a micro materials behavior , molecular dynamics simulation was carried out to discuss the effect of C atom on the staking fault nucleation . from the simulation result we can find that carbon influence the staking fault nucleation greatly , with the increasing of the number of C atoms , strain for staking fault form decreased , system with <nUm> C atoms staking fault formed when strain was <nUm> % and for system without C atoms there are no staking fault with local tension strain up to <nUm> % . under the same deformation , stacking fault distribution was uniform for the system with <nUm> carbon and become uneven with the increasing of the C atom 
with synergy of plastic deformation near crack tip and pulse current treatment , complex phase transformation and recrystallization occur in the metallographic structure , with the austenite transforming to fine grain structure and deformation - induced martensite ; but , without the plastic deformation , the phase transformation , and recrystallization it was difficult for the crack arrest process to take place only undergoing the pulse current treatment . the nano-indentation experiment showed that the phase transformation region contained the maximum residual compressive stress consisting of four parts : the plastic stress , the explosion stress , the thermal stress , and the transformation stress , which was beneficial to restrain the crack growth . however , the solidification structure and the deformation - induced martensite structure was vulnerable to pitting corrosion through scanning microelectrode technology ( SMET ) and pitting corrosion experiment , but the pitting corrosion resistance could be improved through the solution heat treatment . 
continuous cooling of the austenitic phase is important in controlling the microstructure and properties of steel . At high cooling rates , the initial formation of allotriomorphic ferrite undergoes a transition to bainite and martensite . modelling and understanding the transformation process does therefore not only involve the ferrite formation , but also the bainite and martensite formation , and especially the mechanisms of phase formation and the conditions at which the transition occurs . In the present study the acoustic - emission technique is used to obtain more information on the varying transformationprocesses in different temperature regimes . the experimental results are combined with dilatometry and metallographic data in order to gain a full view of the transformation processes and kinetics 
the kinetics and microstructural evolution of austenite formation in a low carbon steel , with initial microstructure composed of ferrite and pearlite , were studied during continuous heating , by using dilatometric analysis and measurements of microstructural parameters . the formation of austenite was observed to occur in two stages : ( a ) pearlite dissolution and ( b ) ferrite to austenite transformation . the critical temperatures of austenite formation in continuous heating increase with increasing heating rate , with greater influence on the finishing temperature of austenite formation . for both the <nUm> ° C / s and <nUm> ° C / s heating rates , the formation rate of austenite reaches a maximum at approximately the finishing temperature of pearlite dissolution , and the formation rate of austenite as a function of the temperature is greater at the higher heating rate 
grain size in the steels is a relevant aspect in quenching and tempering heat treatments . it is known that high\ud austenitizing temperature and long time provide an increase in austenitic grain sizes . likewise , after hardening of low\ud alloy steel , the microstructure consists of martensite and a volume fraction of retained austenite . this paper evaluates\ud the influence of austenite grain size on the volume fraction of retained austenite measured by metallographic analyses and\ud x-ray diffraction . the mi\ud and mf\ud temperatures were calculated using an empirical equation and experimentally determined\ud by differential thermal analysis . the mechanical behavior of the steel was evaluated by vickers microhardness testing.\ud differently from other results published in the literature that steel hardenability increases with the austenite grain size,\ud it was observed that the increase in austenite grain promotes greater volume fraction of retained austenite after water\ud quenching 
direct current ( DC ) glow discharge plasma nitriding was carried out on three selected surface - roughened AISI <nUm> stainless steel samples at <nUm> K under <nUm> mbar pressures for <nUm> h in the presence of N : H gas mixtures of <nUm> : <nUm> ratios . after plasma nitriding , the phase formation , case depth , surface roughness , and microhardness of a plasma - nitrided layer were evaluated by glancing angle x-ray diffractogram , optical microscope , stylus profilometer , and vickers microhardness tester techniques . the case depth , surface hardness , and phase formation variations were observed with a variation in initial surface roughness . the diffraction patterns of the plasma - nitrided samples showed the modified intensities of the α and γ phases along with those of the CrN , Fe4N , and Fe3N phases . hardness and case depth variations were observed with a variation in surface roughness . A maximum hardness of <nUm> hv and a case depth of <nUm> mm were achieved in least surface - roughened samples 
to study the effects of various types of precipitates and precipitate evolution behavior on austenite ( size and phase fraction ) in reduced activation ferritic / martensitic ( RAFM ) steel , RAFM steel was heated to various austenitizing temperatures . the microstructures of specimens were observed using optical microscopy ( OM ) and transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) . the results indicate that the M23C6 and MX precipitates gradually coarsen and dissolve into the matrix as the austenitizing temperatures increase . the M23C6 precipitates dissolve completely at <nUm> ° C , while the MX precipitates dissolve completely at <nUm> ° C . the evolution of two types of precipitate has a significant effect on the size of austenite . based on the zener pinning model , the effect of precipitate evolution on austenite grain size is quantified . it was found that the coarsening and dissolution of M23C6 and MX precipitates leads to a decrease in pinning pressure on grain boundaries , facilitating the rapid growth of austenite grains . the austenite phase fraction is also affected by the coarsening and dissolution of precipitates . 
abstract . the present research is a part of project dealing with structural aspects of ferrite and austenite co-deformation in duplex stainless steels . the examination concerned a development of ferrite and austenite microstructures , major deformation mechanisms operating in both phases and texture formation upon cold - rolling of a model duplex type steel . the investigations showed that the band - like morphology of two - phase structure formed upon processing together with specific starting textures obtained after a preliminary thermo - mechanical treatment exerted significant influence on texture and microstructure development in both constituent phases . microstructure and texture evolution in examined duplex steel significantly differed from those in one - phase steels . these differences resulted first of all from the role of the phase boundaries acting as the barriers for dislocation movement and affecting the processes of strain localization at higher deformations 
© <nUm> elsevier B.V.A physically - based material model has been developed to describe the austenite formation in a manganese - boron steel during heating in hot stamping processes . the equations were formulated based on three austenite formation mechanisms : nucleation , growth and impingement . it is able to characterize the phase transformation process under both non-isothermal and isothermal conditions , where the effects of heating rate and soaking temperature on the austenite formation have been rationalised . heat treatment tests of the manganese - boron steel were performed on a gleeble <nUm> subjected to various heating conditions ( heating rate : <nUm> – <nUm> K / s , soaking temperature : <nUm> – <nUm> K ) . the dimensional changes of specimens associated with the phase transformation , which was measured using a high resolution dilatometer , has been quantitatively related to the volume fraction of austenite formation . the experimental data were used to calibrate and validate the equations . good agreement between the experimental and predicted results has been obtained . further analysis has been made to illustrate the significance of the model in applications 
advanced thermomechanical hot rolling is becoming a widely used technology for the production of fine - grained spring steel . different rapid phase transformations during the inductive heat treatment of such steel causes the inhomogeneous mixture of martensitic , bainitic , and austenitic phases that affects the service properties of the steel . an important task is to assess the amount of retained austenite and its distribution over the cross-section of the inductive quenched and tempered wire in order to evaluate the mechanical properties of the material . three different analytical methods were used for the comparative quantitative assessment of the amount of retained austenite in both the core and rim areas of the sample cross-section : neutron diffraction - for the bulk of the material , mossbauer spectroscopy - for measurement in a surface layer , and the metallographic investigations carried by the EBSD . the methods confirmed the excessive amount of retained austenite in the core area that could negatively affect the plasticity of the material . 
the thermal simulation experiments with different deformation amounts and cooling rates of low carbon Nb - microalloyed steel were performed using gleeble <nUm> thermomechanical simulator . the observations by OM and TEM reveal that when undeformed austenite continuously cooled at <nUm> to <nUm> ° C / s , bainitic ferrite nucleated mainly at austenite grain boundaries , grown up like parallel lath into the bulk from the grain boundaries of austenite , and original austenite grain boundaries could be seen . compared with the undeformed austenite , when austenite deformed by <nUm> % at <nUm> ° C and continuously cooled at <nUm> to <nUm> ° C / s , the austenite grain boundaries were occupied by polygonal ferrite because deformation can increase the deformation energy of austenite grain . therefore , bainitic ferrite only nucleated in the grain of austenite , and original austenite grain boundaries can not be seen 
purpose : the aim of the paper is to determine the influence of the isothermal holding temperature in a bainiticrange of medium-carbon steel on the stability of retained austenite.Design / methodology / approach : the heat treatment of the medium-carbon steel in order to obtain a bainiticstructure with the retained austenite was realized . A range of the holding temperature of the steel underisothermal bainite transformation conditions was from <nUm> to <nUm> ° C . to investigate the structure , optical andtransmission electron microscopy were employed . an amount of the retained austenite was determined usingX - ray diffraction . the mechanical stability of retained austenite was determined by means of the tensile test.Findings : it was found that after the optimum heat treatment the investigated medium-carbon steel has a structureof the ferritic bainite with a <nUm> % fraction of retained austenite . increasing the isothermal holding temperatureresults in obtaining the lower ( <nUm> ° C ) and upper bainite ( <nUm> ° C ) . the retained austenite occurs as regular grainsor thin foils between bainite laths . the steel is characterized by an excellent strength - ductility balance . A kineticsof the strain - induced martensitic transformation of the retained austenite has a two - stage character.Research limitations / implications : to determine with more detail the stability of retained austenite theknowledge of the austenite carbon content as a function of the isothermal holding is required . lattice parametermeasurements with x-ray diffraction is planned for this purpose.Practical implications : the established heat treatment conditions can be useful for manufacturing crash - relatedelements in the automobile industry.Originality / value : it should be stressed that the developed conditions of the heat treatment concern themedium-carbon steel , compared with usually investigated low-carbon steels . the kinetics of the strain - inducedtransformation for TRIP - aided bainitic steel was determined , too 
purpose : this paper is an attempt of reviewing the outlooks about the favourable influence of retained austeniteon fracture toughness of tool steels according to results of investigation concerning relations between temperingtemperature , hardness , fraction of retained austenite and fracture toughness.Design / methodology / approach : the tests were performed on the samples made of the 70MnCrMoV9-2-4-2steel in which the fraction of retained austenite was changed by cold treatment and by changing the temperingtemperature . on the ground of analysis of dependencies between fraction of retained austenite , hardness , fracturetoughness and tempering temperature of hardened 70MnCrMoV9-2-4-2 steel the influence of retained austenite onfracture toughness of tested steel was investigated.Findings : was found that retained austenite remaining in the structure of tested steel after quenching increased itsfracture toughness on directly proportional way to its volume fraction . advantageous influence of this phase wasalso found after tempering tested steel.Research limitations / implications : it was pointed out that most beneficial influence of retained austeniteexists when tested steel after hardening is low - tempered . At that moment the highest stabilization of the phaseoccurs . while at tempering temperatures above <nUm> ° C it was indicated that it is possible to combine retainedaustenite transition and irreversible tempering brittleness.Originality / value : on the basis of own research , the authors present their own , original point of view on theissue of presence of retained austenite in the structure , its stability and the influence on fracture toughness of lowtemperedtools steel 
the thermodynamic limit to the progress of the bainite reaction in steels containing a cementite inhibitor often leaves large quantities of thermally or mechanically unstable austenite . such austenite is not effective in delaying the onset of plastic instabilities during the course of deformation . In such circumstances , it is useful to conduct isothermal transformation at a high temperature where the rate of reaction is relatively rapid , followed by a lower temperature step that permits more bainite to be generated . this in turn increases the stability of the refined austenite , which then transforms gently over a large range of strain during a tensile test . A significant corollary is that the two - step heat treatments are unnecessary in low-carbon steels , where the bainite reaction is able to proceed to a greater extent before reaching the thermodynamic limit . furthermore , the two - step process can be counterproductive in low carbon steel , because the austenite content is reduced to a level below which it does not enhance the mechanical properties . other circumstances in which multiple heat treatments are necessary are also discussed.The authors are grateful to POSCO for support through steel innovation programme , and to the world class university programme of the national research foundation of korea , ministry of education , science and technology , project number R32-2008-000-10147.This is the accepted manuscript version . the final published version is available from springer at http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs11661-014-2405-z 
the tempering of two – phase mixtures of bainitic ferrite and carbon – enriched retained austenite has been investigated in an effort to separate the reactions that occur at elevated temperatures from any transformation during cooling to ambient conditions . it is demonstrated using synchrotron x – radiation measurements , that the residue of austenite left at the tempering temperature partly decomposes by martensitic transformation when the sample is cooled . it is well – established in the published literature that films of retained austenite are better able to resist stress or strain – induced martensitic transformation than any coarser particles of austenite . In contrast , the coarser austenite is more thermally stable than the film form because of its lower carbon concentration . <nUm> 
A popular issue of recent scientific research is the surface modification induced by plastic deformation , such as ultrasonic shot peening ( USP ) on workpiece surface . USP is an efficient way to improve the mechanical behavior of specimens by inducing severe plastic deformation on their surface . nevertheless , this surface treatment induced complex microstructural evolutions , such as grain refinement and phase transformation . In this work , the microstructure and properties of <nUm> austenite steel samples before and after USP for <nUm> , <nUm> , and <nUm> min treatments have been investigated . the affected layers show a significant hardness increase ( ~ <nUm> mm in depth ) on the USP treated surface , and the <nUm> min USP treated specimen shows the best corrosion resistance in all tested specimens . the magnetic properties and microstructures of the tested specimens show gradient evolution during deformation . 
purpose : the aim of this study was to evaluate the inclination to mechanical destabilization of retained austenite in the microstructure of the TRIP steel containing <nUm> % C , <nUm> % Mn and <nUm> % Si.Design / methodology / approach : the new , simple method for evaluating the mechanical stability of retained austenite was proposed , which is based on the bending test and the measurement of volume fraction of retained austenite by x-ray quantitative phase analysis . the relationship between stress and local strain as well as local volume fraction of this phase in selected locations on the surface of the bending sample were revealed.Findings : the applied heat treatment , modified with respect to the classic one , allowed remain approximately <nUm> vol. % of the retained austenite in the microstructure of the investigated TRIP steel . it was pointed that retained austenite has high mechanical stability if stress is low . under influence of the higher stress a partial destabilization this phase occurred . it was found that in the examined steel such mechanical destabilization of retained austenite has two - or three - stage nature.Research limitations / implications : results of this study indicate a significant stability of retained austenite in the investigated TRIP steel . it is advisable to check how will change the stability of this phase when the stress or strain will be higher than those that occurred in this research.Practical implications : the new method of the evaluation of the retained austenite mechanical stability provides the possibility of an easy and effective estimation of this phase tendency to mechanical destabilisation and to martensite transformation in the steel . In addition , this method allows analysing the influence of the stress as well as the strain on changes in this phase volume fraction , which occur during three - point bending.Originality / value : the proposed method may be used for evaluation of susceptibility of retained austenite on transformation under load . moreover , developed relationships between volume fraction of retained austenitestress as well as volume fraction of retained austenite - strain , can be used for interpretation and analyze of mechanical properties changes of heat - treated steel 
this work presents the analysis the effort of phases which are present in the austenitic cast steel Fe-Ni-Cr-C , applied for elements of technological instrumentation for carburising furnaces . the reduced stresses sred in the carbides and the austenitic matrix were determined in accordance with the assumed hypotheses of effort , on the basis of the structural stresses sx , sy , sz and s1 , s2 , s3 calculated by the finite element method for two model location cases of the carbides towards the cast steel surface . the hypotheses referred to the crack condition were applied to evaluate the elastic carbide efforts , while for the elastic - plastic austenitic matrix - the hypotheses referred to the plasticity condition were used . there were compared the reduced stresses sred determined in accordance with various hypotheses and the correctness of their applying . it was demonstrated on the basis of the executed analysis of the effort that the carbides are destroyed only when they are not entirely surrounded by the austenitic matrix 
AbstractTwo vacuum carburizing treatments were applied to ductile steel 14NiCr11 to obtain equivalent hardened layers with retained austenite contents of <nUm> % and <nUm> % . the properties of the carburized surfaces were examined and characterized before fatigue tests and during cyclic loading . transformation of retained austenite into martensite during loading , was evaluated by dispersive x-ray diffraction method . the effects of this transformation on the residual stresses have been measured by x ray diffraction in martensite and in retained austenite structures . it was shown that the cyclic retained austenite transformation caused a redistribution of the compressive residual stresses and an increased surface hardness that stabilized after a small number of cycles . the dependence of fatigue behavior on surface properties was determined , and a relationship between the stabilized state and the fatigue limit is suggested . A phenomenological approach is proposed to correlate the influence of surface hardening and the stabilized residual stresses on fatigue limit of carburized specimens . the crossland , dang van and findley - matake , multiaxial high cycle fatigue criteria were used in this approach and results have shown a good agreement with experimental data 
abstract . the effect of <nUm> % niobium additions on austenite grain coarsening behavior of GCr15 bearing steel was studied . results indicate that the coarsening temperatures of no.1 and the no.2 experimental steel were <nUm> ° C and <nUm> ° C . the austenite grain coarsening temperature was increased by <nUm> ° C by the addition of <nUm> % Nb in bearing steel . the grain growth equations of two experimental steels at different soaking temperatures from <nUm> ° C to <nUm> ° C with the soaking time of <nUm> min are as follows : the equation of no.1 steel is D1 = <nUm> × 105*exp( - <nUm> × <nUm> / RT ) ; the equations of no.2 steel below and above <nUm> ° C is D2 = <nUm> × 102*exp( - <nUm> × <nUm> / RT ) and D2 = <nUm> × 108*exp( - <nUm> × <nUm> / RT ) , respectively . the grain growth equations of two experimental steels at different soaking time from <nUm> to <nUm> min with the soaking temperature of <nUm> ° C are a 
the mechanically - induced transformation behaviour of the metastable austenite phase in a high - strength industrial TRIP - assisted dual phase steel was monitored in situ using high - energy synchrotron diffraction under uniaxial loading . this allowed direct quantification of the impact of the transformation of the metastable austenite phase ( <nUm> vol % ) , embedded in a ferrite-bainite-martensite matrix , on the work hardening behaviour of this steel . our results show that the mechanically induced transformation of austenite does not begin until the onset of matrix yielding . we provide experimental evidence which demonstrates for the first time that the austenite transformation increases the work - hardening contribution , sw thereby supporting a driving force approach to transformation induced plasticity . the transformation work required leads to an increase in the macroscopic work - hardening rate after matrix yielding and continues to offset the decrease in the work - hardening rate in the ferrite and martensite phases up to the UTS . further we show conclusively that martensite yielding does not occur until the completion of the mechanically induced transformation of austenite . plastic deformation of martensite is immediately followed by local plastic instability leading to necking and ultimate failure of this material 
A Fe - <nUm> % Cr - <nUm> % Ni - <nUm> % Mo duplex stainless steel was solution treated at <nUm> A degrees C for <nUm> h , quenched in water and isothermally treated at <nUm> A degrees C for <nUm> s . the crystallography of austenite was studied using EBSD technique . intragranular austenite particles formed from delta ferrite are shown to nucleate on inclusions , and to be subdivided in twin - related sub-particles . intragranular austenite appears to have planar - only orientation relationships with the ferrite matrix , close to kurdjumov - sachs and nishyiama - wassermann , but not related to a conjugate direction . samples treated at <nUm> A degrees C underwent sparse formation of sigma phase and pronounced growth of elongated austenite particles , very similar to acicular ferrite 
abstract . it is important to suppress grain coarsening during the carburizing treatment of automobile components such as gears and shafts so that high strength is maintained and heat treatment distortion is minimized . two manufacturing methods are often used for the cost reduction . one is the increasing carburizing temperature . the other is the adoption of cold forging instead of hot forging . these methods are likely to result in grain coarsening in the case of conventional steels . it is well known that the key factors to control the grain growth are the initial austenite grain size and the volume and mean size of precipitates . In this study , the grain growth property of Ti - modified steel was investigated to confirm the influence of precipitates , and compared with those of Nb - modified and conventional steels . the influence of forging temperature on the grain growth property in a Ti - modified steel was also investigated 
purpose : the aim of this study was a review of opinions molded within last <nUm> years on a part of steel cracking process played by retained austenite.Design / methodology / approach : dependencies between volume fraction of retained austenite , its stability , hardness , fracture toughness , and tempering temperature of hardened 70MnCrMoV9-2-4-2 steel were determined . on the ground of analysis of those dependencies the influence of retained austenite on fracture toughness of tested steel was investigated.Findings : it was found that retained austenite remaining in the structure of tested steel after quenching increased its fracture toughness on directly proportional way to its volume fraction . advantageous influence of this phase was also found after tempering tested steel at temperatures within the range of 120-400 ° C.Research limitations / implications : the results of investigation presented in this paper may enrich and complement the knowledge about the part played by this phase in steel cracking process . it was pointed out that most beneficial influence of retained austenite exists when tested steel after hardening is low - tempered . At that moment the highest stabilization of the phase occurs . while at tempering temperatures above <nUm> ° C it was indicated that it is possible to combine retained austenite transition and irreversible tempering brittleness.Practical implications : research results presented in this paper let hope that know - how of such heat treatment , which would make possible to stabilize this phase in the structure of hardened steels , would contribute not only to restrain temper brittleness in these steels but even to complete elimination of this adverse phenomenon.Originality / value : on the basis of own research , the authors have verified the opinions , presenting original point of view on the issue of presence of retained austenite in the structure , its stability and the influence on fracture toughness of tool steel 
international audienceExpanded austenite generation through ion carburizing of AISI <nUm> L using two different reactive gas mixtures ( Ar <nUm> % , H <nUm> % , CH4 <nUm> % and Ar <nUm> % , H <nUm> % , CH4 <nUm> % ) has been studied . it was found that an not , vert , similar <nUm> um surface layer of expanded austenite was developed with <nUm> min processing for both gas mixtures . nevertheless , AES analyses have shown that on the not , vert , similar <nUm> nm surface layer carbon in a concentration of not , vert , similar <nUm> % was diffused and located as carbide . for longer periods of processing , while for the gas mixture with <nUm> % of Ar no significant modifications within those <nUm> nm surface layer were produced , for the gas mixture with <nUm> % of Ar a gradual increase in the carbon concentration with time was found , with the extra carbon remaining as free carbon . the difference between both situations can be attributed to the different resulting current densities that have been of <nUm> mA cm- <nUm> and <nUm> mA cm- <nUm> for <nUm> % and <nUm> % of Ar respectively . higher current densities result in higher carbon and Ar ions fluxes inducing , from one side surface element concentration modification through sputtering , and from the other the enhancement of carbon diffusion on the first hundred nanometers of the surface layers . this free carbon on top of the surface layers can act as solid lubricant reducing wear rate . nevertheless , and in spite of the fact that expanded austenite was proved to be corrosion resistant , a reduction against ClNa solution corrosion in relation to the base material was observed . this lost to corrosion resistance can be attributed to carbide development on the layers closer to the surface that can work as a trigger for localized corrosion 
38MnSiVS5 steel is similar to 38MnVS6 steel ( EN ) , the difference being the addition of a small Ti content . typical Ti and Al contents in the chemical composition of 38MnSiVS5 steel are Ti = <nUm> and Al = <nUm> mass % . both elements combine easily with nitrogen , especially Ti , and it has been observed that relatively high Al levels are harmful for austenite grain size control at reheating temperatures . In this work 38MnSiVS5 steel is used to manufacture a large number of castings , varying only the Ti and Al contents and obtaining ingots with a different Ti / Al ratio in each case . the results show that abnormal growth of the austenitic grain occurs irrespective of the Ti and Al contents , due fundamentally to the partial dissolution and coarsening of NTi precipitates . however , the steels with high Al contents present worse behaviour due to the formation of a second type of precipitates , namely AIN , which quickly dissolve between <nUm> and <nUm> ° C , causing a drastic decline in local pinning forces that gives rise to more pronounced abnormal growth of the affected grains.Peer reviewe 
abstract . along with the rapid development of the science and technology , the requirements of microstructure and properties for the bearing steel are more and more strict . the recrystallization behavior of hot deformed austenite in GCr15 bearing steel was systematically studied under the different deformation amount , deformation temperature and dwell time after rolling , the changes of microstructure and recrystallization percentage was analyzed . the research results show that the recrystallization behavior of hot deformed austenite in GCr15 bearing steel is more and more obvious as the deformation amount , deformation temperature and dwell time after rolling increase , the microstructure is more uniform , and the recrystallization percentage increases ; when the deformation amount is <nUm> % , the deformation temperature is <nUm> ° C and the dwell time after rolling is 10s , the recrystallization percentage is <nUm> % , when the deformation amount is <nUm> % , the deformation temperature is <nUm> ° C and the dwell time after rolling is 60s , the recrystallization percentage is <nUm> % , comparing it to <nUm> % , it increases <nUm> % 
the change in the morphology of lath martensite with deformation of austenite ( ausforming ) has been studied by using an <nUm> % Ni maraging steel . specimens in austenitic state were deformed in tension by several strains ( true strain ε = <nUm> ∼ <nUm> ) at <nUm> K ( which was above Md temperature ) . In the case of conventionally quenched ( not - deformed ) specimen , an austenite grain contained several packets and each packet was almost completely partitioned by parallel blocks . however , this morphology of packets and blocks was markedly changed when martensite was formed from deformed ( work - hardened ) austenite . the packet size was increased with an increase in the amount of deformation . on the other hand , block width was decreased with an increase in the amount of deformation ( up to about ε = <nUm> ) and blocks became wavy or finely segmented when austenite was heavily deformed ( ε = <nUm> ∼ <nUm> ) . from the observation of the formation process of lath martensite by applying the greninger - troiano heat treatment , it was found that laths with the same habit plane ( one of four {111}g habit planes ) were preferentially formed in an austenite grain when the specimen was deformed before transformation , although four {111}g martensite habit planes were almost evenly observed in an austenite grain in a conventionally quenched specimen . because of such a restriction of the variant of martensite habit plane , the ausformed lath martensite exhibits the characteristic morphology 
abstract . A low carbon steel is austenitized and isothermally held at 680C to form allotriomorphic ferrite and followed by a holding at lower temperature to form bainite . the morphology of allotriomorphic ferrite / bainite interfaces is studied using optical microscope . three kinds of combination are observed : type I : interface on one side is clear while on the other side , unclear ; type II : unclear on both sides ; type III : clear on both sides . clear interface indicates a large difference in the orientation between the bainite and the ferrite , and unclear interface , a very small difference . the statistical counting shows that the ratio of type I is about 80-82 % , and that of type II , 7-8 % , and type III , 9-11 % . it is observed that this ratio does not change with the austenite grain size and bainite forming temperature . and the clear and unclear side of allotriomorphic ferrite may have different influence on the nucleation rate of bainite at allotriomorhic ferrite / prior austenite interface 
subcritical austenite reverse transformation quenching was used to improve the mechanical properties of 30CrMnSi steel , and the microstructure and mechanical properties of the samples were analyzed by subcritical austenite reverse transformation quenching . experimental results show that subcritical reverse transformation quenching can refine the austenite grains of the 30CrMnSi steel . lath - shaped martensite can be obtained after quenching . ferrite is exited in the martensite lath when quenching temperature is low . when quenching temperature is higher than 840 , ferrite disappears and only lath - shaped martensite can be observed . the subcritical austenite reverse transformation quenching at 840 can effectively improve the strength and hardness , which is higher than that of the sample by conventional quenching at <nUm> ℃ 
the strain - induced austenite ( gamma ) to martensite ( alpha ' ) transformation in AISI <nUm> L austenitic stainless steel , either in powders or bulk specimens , has been investigated . the phase transformation is accomplished using either ball - milling processes ( in powders ) — dynamic approach — or by uniaxial compression procedures ( in bulk specimens ) — quasistatic approach . remarkably , an increase in the loading rate causes opposite effects in each case : ( i ) it increases the amount of transformed alpha ' in ball - milling procedures , but(ii) it decreases the amount of alpha ' in pressed samples . both the microstructural changes ( e.g. , crystallite size refinement , microstrains , or type of stacking faults ) in the parent gamma phase and the role of the concomitant temperature rise during deformation seem to be responsible for these opposite trends . furthermore , the results show the correlation between the gamma -> alpha ' phase transformation and the development of magnetism and enhanced hardness.status : publishe 
knowledge of carbon content in retained austenite ( RA ) with different neighbouring phases is essential to understand the chemical stability of RA , which is useful for microstructure tuning of transformation - induced plasticity ( TRIP ) steels . the present study investigates different morphologies and chemical compositions of RA by correlating electron backscattering diffraction , transmission electron microscopy and atom probe tomography . the effect of neighbouring phases , such as polygonal ferrite , bainitic ferrite lath , ferrite in granular bainite and carbides , on the carbon content in the RA is investigated . the results reveal that the film RA morphology does not always have a higher carbon content than the blocky RA ; as coarse RA sometimes displays a higher carbon content than the fine RA films or islands depending on the neighbouring phases . the diffusion of carbon and manganese between austenite and ferrite in bainitic ferrite / granular bainite has been explained according to either diffusionless and / or diffusional mechanism of bainitic ferrite formation followed by tempering 
the austenite decomposition behavior of a 9Cr-1Mo-V base metal and weld metal was characterized using dilatometry and in-situ x-ray diffraction . experimental measurements were made as samples were austenitized at <nUm> ° C , cooled to room temperature at <nUm> ° C / min , tempered at <nUm> ° C , and cooled a second time to room temperature . the data show that transformation of austenite to martensite was completed in the base metal during cooling from <nUm> ° C . In contrast , the initial cooling from <nUm> ° C did not completely transform austenite in the weld metal to martensite . austenite retained in the weld metal was stable during the tempering treatment and only transformed to martensite during the final cooling stage . the diffraction data also showed that the austenite lattice parameter in the weld metal decreased during the tempering treatment . this observation was consistent with the retained austenite having a higher MS than it did during the initial cooling . computational thermodynamics modeling was used to predict that the elements , C , Cr , Mn and Ni , that influence transformation temperatures in this alloy strongly partition to interdendritic regions during solidification . the stability of retained austenite in the weld metal during the thermal cycle and its transformation behavior were attributed to the effects of microsegregation . after the final cooling from the tempering treatment the weld metal will contain a small amount of untempered martensite 
austenite stainless steel is one of the most important engineering materials with wide variety of applications . superior resistances to corrosion and compatibility in high temperature and high vacuum have particularly made it an attractive choice . however , the machinability of austenitic stainless steel is not very promising owing to lower thermal conductivity , higher degree of ductility and work harden ability . grade <nUm> L1 is the standard molybdenum- bearing grade . molybdenum gives <nUm> better corrosion resistance properties than crevice corrosion in chloride environment . it has excellent forming and welding characteristics . over the years , cemented carbide ( WC-Co ) has overcome many drawbacks of high speed steel ( HSS ) as cutting tool materials and become one of the most versatile cutting tool materials during machining both ferrous and non ferrous alloys . there are mainly three grades of cemented carbide cutting tool example K , P and m grades . steel being very ductile in nature produces long , continuous chip during machining . moreover , iron in steel has greater affinity towards carbon of WC of the tool . P grade , is more diffusion resistant grade due to presence of more stable carbide like CTi , CTa and CNb . therefore , P grade is also known as mixed carbide grade and more suitable for machining steel . since P30 grade of cemented carbide would provide excellent balance of hardness , wear resistance and toughness , the same grade has been chosen for machining of stainless steel . In the first phase of work , tool life test would be carried out using three different cutting velocities ( <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> m / min ) with constant feed of <nUm> mm / rev and constant depth of cut of <nUm> mm for different duration of machining . tool life study would be based on average flank wear , VB = <nUm> mm criterion . flank wear would be measured using a zoom optical microscope . therefore , effect of cutting speed on tool life of uncoated P30 grade carbide insert would be studied during machining of <nUm> grade of austenitic stainless steel 
uniaxial tensile tests on a highly textured , fully austenitic stainless steel were performed in the transverse and rolling directions . differences in overall material and transformation behavior were observed : transformation from the austenite phase to the martensite phase during a test in the transverse direction occurred at a higher strain and stress and reached a lower ultimate fraction of martensite as compared to the rolling direction . the ‘ stress induced transformation ’ theory was combined with the measured austenite texture prior to deformation to explain the observed behavior . XRD measurements of the austenite texture after deformation in the rolling and transverse direction were performed to support the theory 
abstract . the <nUm> m steel was isothermally compressed on a gleeble - <nUm> simulator at the deformation temperatures ranging from <nUm> K to <nUm> K , the strain rates ranging from <nUm> s-1 to <nUm> s-1 and a strain of <nUm> . the morphology of austenite grains in the isothermally compressed <nUm> m steel was observed using an OLYMPUS PMG3 microscope . the experimental results show that the deformation temperature and strain rate have an interaction effect on austenite grains in the isothermally compressed <nUm> m steel . dynamic recrystallization occurs more easily at high deformation temperature and low strain rate . dynamic recrystallization occurs completely and the coarse grains occur at the deformation temperature above <nUm> K . the austenite grain size increases as the deformation temperature increases while it decreases as the strain rate increases 
the high cycle fatigue behavior and the role of austenite stability on fatigue performance of low - alloy TRIP steel <nUm> have been experimentally investigated . the material was subjected to heat treatment in order to produce microstructures with different initial retained austenite volume fraction and austenite stability . high cycle fatigue tests were carried out to determine the S-N fatigue curve while austenite stability was measured by implementing a special technique for determination of m-s(sigma) temperature . the effect of austenite stability on fatigue behavior was assessed by measurements of volume fraction austenite before and after fatigue testing . the fatigue results indicated that austenite stability influences fatigue performance of TRIP steel in the high cycle regime , especially at high cyclic stresses . ( C ) <nUm> elsevier B.V. all rights reserved 
AISI <nUm> LM samples were plasma nitrided at a temperature of <nUm> ° C for different times between <nUm> and <nUm> h in a <nUm> % N2- <nUm> % H gas mixture . different experimental techniques such as : optical microscopy ( OM ) , X- ray diffraction ( XRD ) and glow discharge optical emission spectroscopy ( GDOES ) were used to characterize the expanded austenite layer formed at the surface of AISI <nUm> LM stainless steel . the microscopical observations revealed the presence of the expanded austenite with a mean layer thickness between <nUm> and <nUm> mm . the growth kinetics of expanded austenite was also investigated . In addition , both the compressive stresses in the expanded austenite layer and the compositional strains were estimated by means of a simple mechanical model based on the XRD results 
AbstractThe heat treatment applied to high speed steel is in large measure dictated by the necessity of decreasing the residual austenite content . after hardening , a large amount of residual austenite it is found in the structure ; this is unwanted because it is less hard than practical necessities and also unstable in time . As a result , the heat treatment has the purpose to conferee to tools mechanical properties that are required in exploitation , and in the same time , stable from structural point of view and of mechanical characteristics . In this purpose there are known several processes , as for example multiple tempering and treatment below zero degrees . In this paper , it is proposed the analysis of residual austenite from <nUm> high steel speeds subject to multiple heat treatment operations , by determining after each , the quantity of residual austenite ; this was made with x ray diffraction using a software package program . research has revealed the decrease of residual austenite content with the number of tempering as well as with the treatment below zero degrees 
grain growth is a thermally activated process in which the average grain size increases as temperature and time increases . the driving force for grain growth results from the decrease in the free energy associated with the reduction in total grain boundary energy . there are several known factors that influence the migration of grain boundaries such as second phase particles precipitated in the matrix and the solute elements segregated at grain boundaries . the austenite grain boundaries are revealed using the thermal etching method . carbon extraction replicas were prepared to determine the composition and size of precipitates present in the matrix . In this work , the evolution of the average prior austenite grain size ( PAGS ) of a low carbon steel microalloyed with niobium is studied as a function of temperature and heating rate . austenite grains show a two - stage growth . it has been found that as heating rate increases , the grain coarsening temperature ( TGC ) increases and the grain size at that temperature decreases . TGC temperature lies around 40-60oC below the temperature for complete dissolution of carbonitrides ( TDISS ). peer reviewe 
transverse surface cracks in low carbon steel slabs are invariably inter-granular and follow the soft ferrite films outlining the grain boundaries of exceptionally large prior - austenite grains often found at the roots of oscillation marks in continuously cast low-carbon steel slabs . plastic deformation is concentrated in the ferrite films and cracks initiate in the ferrite films , leading to crack propagation along the austenite grain boundaries . hot - ductility is significantly reduced by an increase in austenite grain size and in situ observations revealed that depending on the cooling rate , austenite can nucleate and grow by diffusional mechanisms or forms by a massive type of reaction . the delta-ferrite transformation has also been studied by using neutron diffraction techniques and high - energy x-rays in a synchrotron 
purpose : the aim of this study is to contribute to a better understanding of the role of the key factors governing the formation of multiphase TRIP aided steel.Design / methodology / approach : the present work reports the results of in-situ neutron diffraction experiments focused on monitoring the phase evolution in three TRIP steel samples subjected to different thermomechanical processing and mechanical loading to evaluate the stability of retained austenite.Findings : in-situ neutron diffraction experiments allowed characterizing the elastoplastic properties of the phases present in TRIP steel . these properties have strong influence on the transformation behaviour of the retained austenite during the straining and also critical effect on general mechanical properties of TRIP steel.Research limitations / implications : the precise , fast and cheap measurement of the amount of retained austenite in multiphase structure is a basic limitation for further research work , improvement and development control of TRIP steels . practical implications : it is believed that not only the sufficient volume fraction of the retained austenite is the prerequisite to achieve convenient conditions for TRIP effect in low - alloyed steels.Originality / value : it was found that not only volume fraction of retained austenite has the influence on mechanical properties of TRIP steels , but also the state ( size , distribution , carbon saturation , morphology ) of retained austenite and the state of surrounding ( a-matrix ) plays important role 
the diffusion - controlled ferrite - austenite transformation in stainless steel welds was modeled . an implicit finite - difference analysis that considers multi-component diffusion was used . the model was applied to the Fe-Cr-Ni system to investigate the ferrite- austenite transformation in the heat - affected zone of stainless steel weld metal . the transformation was followed as a function of time as the heat - affected zone was subjected to thermal cycles comparable to those experienced during gas - tungsten arc welding . the results showed that the transformation behavior and the final microstructural state are very sensitive to the maximum temperature that is experienced by the heat - affected zone . for high maximum exposure temperatures ( {approximately} 1300{degree} C ) , the ferrite formation that occurs at the highest temperatures is not completely offset by the reverse ferrite dissolution at lower temperatures . As a result , for high temperature exposures there is a net increase in the amount of ferrite in the microstructure . it was also found that if compositional gradients are present in the initial ferrite and austenite phases , the extent of the transformation is impacted 
dual - phase high carbon steels ( DHCS ) are commonly known for their improved strength , hardness , and abrasive resistance properties due to co-presence of retained austenite and martensite at the same time . retained austenite is a meta-stable phase at room temperature , and stability of this phase governs the response of DHCS at different conditions . this research paper studies the effect of RA stability on corrosion behaviour of high carbon steels after they have been immersed into <nUm> m ClNa solution for various times . for this purpose , two different steels with different RA stabilities have been investigated . the surface morphology of the samples before and after corrosion attack was observed by secondary electron microscopy ( SEM ) and atomic force microscopy ( AFM ) , along with the weight loss and vickers hardness analysis . microstructural investigations proved the preferential attack to retained austenite phase during corrosion . hence , increase in the stability of retained austenite in dual - phase steels led to decreasing the weight loss rate 
by means of torsion tests using small specimens , the influence of austenite grain size on strain induced precipitation kinetics has been determined in a vanadium microalloyed steel . determination of recrystallisation-precipitation-time-temperature ( RPTT ) diagrams for two austenite grain sizes allows values of the aforementioned magnitudes to be determined . an ample discussion is made of the quantitative influence found and its relation with nucleation and growth mechanisms of precipitates . the results are compared with the quantitative influence exerted by the other variables , reaching the conclusion that the austenite grain size has a notable influence on strain induced precipitation kinetics which should not be underestimated . finally , the influence of austenite grain size is included in a strain induced precipitation model constructed by the authors of this work and which also takes into account the other aforementioned variables.Peer reviewe 
international audienceThe austenitization from a spheroidized microstructure during intercritical annealing was studied in a Fe-0.1C-3.5Mn alloy . the austenite grains preferentially nucleate and grow from intergranular cementite . the nucleation at intragranular cementite is significantly retarded or even suppressed . the DICTRA software , assuming local equilibrium conditions , was used to simulate the austenite growth kinetics at various temperatures and for analyzing the austenite growth mechanism . the results indicate that both the mode and the kinetics of austenite growth strongly depend on cementite composition . with sufficiently high cementite Mn content , the austenite growth is essentially composed of two stages , involving the partitioning growth controlled by Mn diffusion inside ferrite , followed by a stage controlled by Mn diffusion within austenite for final equilibration . the partitioning growth results in a homogeneous distribution of carbon within austenite , which is supported by NanoSIMS carbon mapping 
A microstructure evolution of the thermomechanically processed 3Mn-1.5Al type steel and mechanical stability of retained austenite were investigated during interrupted tensile tests . the microstructural details were revealed using scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) , electron backscatter diffraction ( EBSD ) , and transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) techniques . it was found that the strain - induced martensitic transformation began in central regions of the largest blocky - type grains of retained austenite and propagated to outer areas of the grains as the deformation level increased . At rupture , the mechanical stability showed only boundaries of fine blocky grains of γ phase and austenitic layers located between bainitic ferrite laths . the effects of various carbon enrichment , grain size , and location in the microstructure were considered . the martensitic transformation progress was the highest at the initial stage of deformation and gradually decreased as the deformation level increased . 
the basic characterization of the austenite grain size and shape prior to quenching to martensite was already used in the past to optimize the mechanical properties and impact toughness of low carbon martensitic steel . this basic characterization can typically be done by optical microscopy . to better understand the mechanisms that generate the different properties , however , a more detailed analysis is required . an algorithm has been developed to calculate the austenite orientation starting from the martensite orientation measured by EBSD . the method has been applied to explain the different properties of martensite after austenitization and quenching and of direct quenched martensite with different levels of accumulated strain . it is shown that a small austenite size is needed to improve the impact toughness , regardless of the process route . the strength is strongly depending on the dislocation density in the austenite 
In the present study , investigations are focused on microstructural evolution and the resulting hardness during continuous cooling transformation ( CCT ) in a commercial vanadium microalloyed steel ( 30MSV6 ) . furthermore , the effects of cooling rate and austenite grain size ( AGS ) on CCT behavior of the steel have been studied by employing high - resolution dilatometry . quantitative metallography accompanied with scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) has efficiently confirmed the dilatometric measurements of transformation kinetics and austenite decomposition products . A semi-empirical model has been proposed for prediction of microstructural development during austenite decomposition of the steel and the resultant hardness . the model consists of <nUm> sub-models including ferrite transformation start temperature , ferrite growth , pearlite start temperature , pearlite growth , bainite start temperature , bainite growth , martensite start temperature and hardness . the transformed fractions of ferrite , pearlite and bainite have been described using semi-empirical Johnson-Mehl-Avrami-Kolmogorov ( JMAK ) approach in combination with scheil\u27s equation of additivity . the JMAK rate parameter for bainite has been formulated using a diffusion - controlled model . predictions of the proposed model were found to be in close agreement with the experimental measurements 
materials produced by selective laser melting ( SLM ) experience a thermal history that is markedly different from that encountered by conventionally produced materials . In particular , a very high cooling rate from the melt is combined with cyclical reheating upon deposition of subsequent layers . using atom - probe tomography ( APT ) , we investigated how this nonconventional thermal history influences the phase - transformation behavior of maraging steels ( Fe – 18Ni – 9Co – 3.4Mo – 1.2Ti ) produced by SLM . we found that despite the “ intrinsic heat treatment ” and the known propensity of maraging steels for rapid clustering and precipitation , the material does not show any sign of phase transformation in the as-produced state . upon aging , three different types of precipitates , namely (Fe,Ni,Co)3(Ti,Mo) , (Fe,Ni,Co)3(Mo,Ti) , and (Fe,Ni,Co)7Mo6 ( µ phase ) , were observed as well as martensite - to - austenite reversion around regions of the retained austenite . the concentration of the newly formed phases as quantified by APT closely matches thermodynamic equilibrium calculations.status : publishe 
introduction and current state of the problem . common and undesirable defects in microstructures\ud include surface decarburization which compromises the quality of HC wire rods hot - wound into coils ( coil rod ) and\ud performance of products made there from . resistance of metal to alternating loads is determined by the depth of the decarburized layer , i.e. actual difference between surface microstructure and base metal structure . As we know [ <nUm> , 2],\ud for decarburization process to occur on the metal surface when heated in a furnace , the gaseous atmosphere shall not\ud produce a very strong oxidizing effect . if the rate of oxidation is higher than that of carbon diffusion in steel , it enhances\ud scale build-up whereby oxygen can oxidize both carbon and iron.\ud although decarburized layer is mostly deemed to be detrimental , it has been argued that decarburization of wire rod\ud surface can be advantageous to useful qualities of wire rods . soft decarburized surface ensures improved flextural (bending)\ud or torsional ( twisting ) dictility of metal resulting from low sensitivity to stress concentration factors , high resistance to crack\ud propagation and higher corrosion resistance [3] . compressive residual stresses occurring in a decarburized skin improve the\ud fatigue life and increase the durability of steel - wire ropes [4] . wire rods with more pronounced surface decarburization are\ud less likely to form the hardened structures ( martensite ) in drawing operations due to surface cracking and cupping of the\ud martensitic layer . however , in the process of cold drawing whereby metal is deformed by pulling wire rods through a\ud serious of drawing dies ( monolithic system ) , maximum stresses develop on the surface of rolled products[3 – <nUm> ] . therefore\ud uniform distribution of structure on the surface and in the boundary layers is essential . this means that minimum and\ud uniform depth of decarburization on the metal surface is a prerequisite for the production of high - quality HC rolled\ud stock [ <nUm> – 7].\ud the paper [11] acknowledges the influence of micro-additives of boron on changes in the austenite grain size and\ud accordingly the length of borders in high-carbon steels with austenitizing temperature increase within the range of\ud <nUm> … <nUm> 100oS.\ud the purpose of work is to research the effect of austenite grain size on the decarburization depth in carbon (base)\ud steel and boron micro-alloyed steel 
abstract . the new class of bainitic steels can present toughness at room temperature greater than traditional quenched and tempered martensitic steel . this is because the microstructure of steel with high Si content ( ≈ <nUm> wt % ) submitted to bainitic transformation is compose of fine plates of bainitic ferrite separated by retained austenite . the inhibition of cementite precipitation leads to the improvement of toughness . the presence of cementite facilitates the nucleation of cracks . moreover , the blocks of retained austenite are undesirable . this morphology is rather unstable and tends to transform into hard and brittle untempered martensite under the influence of small stress , contributing to a low toughness . however , it was observed in this work that the greater the volume fraction of retained austenite , the greater is the toughness ( 10-24 J ) for multi-phase steel . the values of toughness were independent whether the retained austenite is present on film or block forms . the decrease of toughness values was observed by the tempered samples after the bainitic transformation ( 10-14 J ) . this occurred because the blocks of retained austenite decomposed into carbides , martensite and / or bainite 
maraging steels show an excellent combination of high strength and ductility , which makes them very attractive in a large variety of potential applications . the present work is concerned with the main factors influencing the stability of metastable austenite in such a steel . At subzero temperatures a large variation in the isothermal transformation behaviour of austenite to martensite has been observed . factors such as the austenite grain size and the interstitial content in solid solution are known to influence austenite stability and , therefore , the martensitic transformation . In this steel , the addition of titanium results in carbonitride precipitation . these precipitates play an indirect but important role in the stability of austenite by means of removing interstitials from the solid solution and by inhibiting an austenite grain growth . the combination of techniques such as x-ray diffraction , magnetisation measurements , three - dimensional neutron depolarisation , and internal friction measurements enables a complete characterisation of the transformation . A step towards understanding the factors responsible for the variation in the behaviour observed is the main contribution of this work.Peer reviewe 
the microstructural evolution of a low-carbon steel has been studied during the austenite decomposition , subsequent to initial martensite formation . isothermal holding treatments after rapid cooling to various temperatures between martensite start ( m-s ) and martensite finish ( m-f ) temperatures were carried out in a dilatometer with the intention to form controlled volume fractions of initial martensite and austenite . the purpose of the above heat treatments was to create conditions in which the phase transformations during isothermal treatment between the ms and mf temperatures can take place . different microstructures consisting of bainite , martensite , retained austenite and carbides were obtained depending on the isothermal holding temperature and time . the transformation kinetics was monitored by means of dilatometry and the microstructure was characterized by scanning electron microscope ( SEM ) , electron backscatter diffraction ( EBSD ) and transmission electron microscope ( TEM ) . hardness measurements of the resulting microstructures were analysed . the results revealed that the microstructures formed below m-s are mainly formed by different fractions of tempered martensite and isothermal bainite with carbide precipitation 
welding system has now been concentrated on the development of new process to achieve cost savings,\ud higher productivity and better quality in manufacturing industry . discrete alternate supply of shielding\ud gas is a new technology that alternately supplies the different kinds of shielding gases in weld zone . as\ud the newdevelopedmethods compared to the previous generalwelding with a mixing supply of shielding\ud gas , it can not only increase thewelding quality , but also reduce the energy by <nUm> % and the emission rate of\ud fume . As a result , under thesamewelding conditions,comparedwith thewelding by supplying pure argon,\ud argon + <nUm> % helium mixture by conventional method and thewelding by supplying alternately pure argon\ud and pure helium by alternate method showed the increased welding speed . also , the alternate method\ud showed the same welding speed with argon + <nUm> % helium mixture without largely deteriorating of weld\ud penetration . the alternate method with argon and helium compared with the conventional methods of\ud pure argon and argon + <nUm> % helium mixture produced the lowest degree of welding distortion 
abstract . this study was investigated the influence of preheat temperature and welding speed by a view point of microstructure of joining zone used by friction stir welding ( FSW ) between ductile cast irons and stainless steels . FSW conditions were carried out by change of tool rotation by <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> rpm , preheat temperature by non-preheat , <nUm> and <nUm> K , and welding speed by 1~10mm / s . As a result , microstructure of FCD450 side became a pearlite structure changed by preheat condition . also , stir zone ( SZ ) of FSW were crystallized the chill structure because of cast iron melted partially why SZ temperature exceeded the eutectic temperature . however , higher welding speed could inhibited crystallization and found the possibility of bonding between ductile cast irons and stainless steels 
toothed wheels constitute essential part of the steel structural elements market . the most often hypereutectoid structural steels forcarburizing are used for toothed wheels . the final producers of toothed wheels are not demanding regarding a microstructure , providedthat the determined requirements will be fulfilled ( e.g. metallurgical purity determined by ultrasounds ) . therefore delivered forgings can be in an annealed or quenched state . this results from the situation that the final heat treatment or heat - chemical one is being done at one of the last stages of the toothed wheel production . an essential factor allowing to develop the proper heat treatment is the knowledge of the kinetics of phase transformations of undercooled austenite and its relating to technological conditions , being at the producer disposal , as well as to forging dimensions . such investigations should be carried out on real melts used for forgings for toothed wheels production together with an analysis of microstructure changes on the forging cross-section . they should be based on calculation methods determining the distribution of cooling rates on its cross-section in dependence of an applied cooling medium.The mentioned above problems in relation to 18CrNiMo7-6 steel - are elucidated in this paper . the aim of the investigations wasthe description of the kinetics of phase transformations of undercooled austenite in this steel . the CCT diagram was constructed for the austenitizing temperature determined on the basis of phase transformations temperatures ( the so - called critical points ) 
In this thesis , the effect of various thermomechanical controlled processing parameters on the transformed microstructural evolution and grain refinement of an API X-80 high temperature processing steel was investigated by conducting plane strain compression tests followed by continuous cooling.\ud increasing the strain magnitude below the recrystallisation - stop temperature ( T5 % ) from <nUm> to <nUm> with a cooling rate of 20@C / s , a transition from bainitic ferrite ( BF ) to acicular ferrite ( AF ) occurs and grain refinement , microhardness and martensite / retained austenite ( m / A ) constituent refinement is improved . once the magnitude of strain2 is increased to <nUm> , dynamic recrystallisation ( DRX ) and subsequent static recrystallisation / meta-dynamic recrystallisation ( SRX / MDRX ) were triggered , weakening the beneficial influences of the austenite deformation.\ud applying continuous cooling with various cooling rates , ranging from 0.5@C / s to 50@C / s , to both fully recrystallised and fully unrecrystallised austenite , the effect of continuous cooling rate was investigated . based on the results of the effects of austenite deformation and continuous cooling rate on AF transformation , the introduction of intragranular nucleation sites and halting of BF laths nucleated on austenite grain boundaries are found as two conditions that should be fulfilled for the occurrence of acicular ferrite transformation in pipeline steels . \ud the effect of prior - austenite grain size ( PAGS ) on the microstructural evolution from both recrystallised and unrecrystallised austenite was studied . for microstructures transformed from recrystallised austenite , increasing the PAGS from <nUm> mm to <nUm> mm , the morphology of the transformed BF microstructure is changed and the effective grain size is reduced . for microstructures transformed from unrecrystallised austenite , reducing the PAGS from <nUm> mm to <nUm> mm , the volume fraction of AF is increased and the effective grain size is reduced from <nUm> mm to <nUm> mm . however , further reducing the PAGS from <nUm> mm to <nUm> mm , there are not significant changes on the transformed microstructures and the grain refinement.\u 
international audienceDuring machining , extreme temperature conditions appear in the cutting zone ( from <nUm> to <nUm> ° C with heating rates around <nUm> ° C / s ) . consequently , the metallurgical models used to simulate the impact of the manufacturing process must be adapted to this fast thermal kinetics . stress - free dilatometry tests have been performed to determine the austenisation kinetics of an AISI S15500 martensitic stainless steel and to identify a phenomenological model . experimental heating rates vary from <nUm> ° C / s to <nUm> ° C / s . the metallurgical model calibrated for high heating rates , has been applied to a typical machining thermal cycle . it has been shown that martensite-austenite transformation does not have the time to significantly occur during the finish turning of AISI S15500 under standard cutting conditions . this result has been confirmed using retained austenite measurements in the machined surface layer 
allotriomorphic ferrite is the morphology of ferrite formed at relatively small undercooling below the ae3 temperature . because it is the first transformation in austenite decomposition during cooling , allotriomorphic ferrite affects indirectly the subsequent austenite phase transformations , and then its study is of vital importance . the present paper is concerned to the theoretical and experimental study of the isothermal decomposition of austenite in allotriomorphic ferrite in a modern medium carbon vanadium - titanium microalloyed forging steel . this paper deals with the isothermal austenite - to - allotriomorphic ferrite as whole , considering the specific role of different features such as prior austenite grain size ( PAGS ) and isothermal temperature , in nucleation and growth processes independently.Peer reviewe 
using a novel laser ultrasonics technique in situ measurements of austenite grain growth were conducted during continuous heating ( <nUm> \ub0C s\u22121 ) and subsequent isothermal holding at various temperatures in the range 950\u20131250 \ub0C in a microalloyed linepipe steel . based on the experimental results , a grain growth model was developed , which includes the pinning effect of precipitates present in the steel . analyzing the grain growth behaviour and using the advanced thermo - kinetic software MatCalc , an approach was developed to estimate the initial distribution of precipitates in the as-received material and their dissolution kinetics . the evolution of the volume fractions and mean particle sizes of CNb and NTi leads to a time - dependent pinning pressure that is coupled with the proposed grain growth model to successfully describe the observed kinetics of austenite grain growth . the predictive capabilities of the model are illustrated by its application to independent grain growth data for rapid heat treatment cycles that are typical of the weld heat affected zone.Peer reviewed : YesNRC publication : ye 
crystallographic reconstruction of parent austenite grain boundaries from the martensitic microstructure in a wear resistant steel was carried out using electron backscattered diffraction ( EBSD ) . the present study mainly aims to investigate the parent austenite grains from the martensitic structure in an as-rolled ( reference ) steel sample and samples obtained by quenching at different cooling rates with corresponding dilatometry . subsequently , this study is to correlate the nearest cooling rate by the dilatometer which yields a similar orientation relationship and substructure as the reference sample . the kurdjumov - sachs orientation relationship was used to reconstruct the parent austenite grain boundaries from the martensite boundaries in both reference and dilatometric samples using EBSD crystallographic data . the parent austenite grain boundaries were successfully evaluated from the EBSD data and the corresponding grain sizes were measured . the parent austenite grain boundaries of the reference sample match the sample quenched at <nUm> ° C / s ( CR100 ) . also the martensite substructures and crystallographic textures are similar in these two samples . the results from hardness measurements show that the reference sample exhibits higher hardness than the CR100 sample due to the presence of carbides in the reference sample . 
the effect of multi-step tempering on retained austenite content and mechanical properties of low alloy steel used in the forged cold back-up roll was investigated . microstructural evolutions were characterized by optical microscope , x-ray diffraction , scanning electron microscope and feritscope , while the mechanical properties were determined by hardness and tensile tests . the results revealed that the content of retained austenite decreased by about <nUm> % after multi-step tempering . however , the content of retained austenite increased from <nUm> % to <nUm> % by increasing multi-step tempering temperature . the hardness and tensile strength increased as the austenitization temperature changed from <nUm> to <nUm> ° C , while above <nUm> ° C , hardness and tensile strength decreased . In addition , the maximum values of hardness , ultimate and yield strength were obtained via triple tempering at <nUm> ° C , while beyond <nUm> ° C , the hardness , ultimate and yield strength decreased sharply 
international audienceIn this work , the AISI <nUm> L stainless steel was plasma nitrided at <nUm> ° C for different times ranging from <nUm> to <nUm> h in a <nUm> % N2-10 % H gas mixture . the observations by optical microscope ( OM ) revealed the presence of the expanded austenite gN with a mean layer thickness lying between <nUm> and <nUm> mm . the growth kinetics of gN layer was also studied . the XRD and GDOES analyses were used to experimentally characterize the gN layer . A mechanical model , based on the XRD data , was applied to determine the compressive stresses in the gN layer and strains induced by the nitrogen diffusion . the estimated values of compressive stresses inside the gN layer ( in absolute values ) were in the range of <nUm> to <nUm> GPa with the strains located between <nUm> and <nUm> % . based on the XRD data , it was found that the expanded austenite can dissolve up to <nUm> at. % N 
MasterIt is well known that the performance of transportation systems such as automobiles can significantly be improved by using lightweight materials , with concurrent reduction in fuel consumption and the emission of exhaust gases . one of the most effective ways of reducing the weight of transportation systems is using the materials with low density . therefore automotive companies are trying to expand the usage of low density alloys such as Al alloys and Mg alloys . this imposes a serious threat to steel industries whose major products are for automotive applications . recently , new type of high strength steels , so - called lightweight steels , has been developed . these lightweight steels have high specific strength and stiffness , and excellent ductility and formability . one of lightweight steels developed is the austenite base steel containing nano-sized k-carbide particles as strengthening precipitates . deformation behavior of the steels can be very complex , including transformation - induced plasticity ( TRIP ) , twinning - induced plasticity ( TWIP ) , shear band induced plasticity and microband induced plasticity . however , the exact mechanism of deformation is not clear . In the present study , deformation behavior of austenite base Fe-28Mn-9Al-0.8C and Fe-28Mn-10Al-0.8C steel has been investigated , with particular emphasis on the effect of nano-sized k-carbide precipitates . aging conditions were varied to have variations in the size and volume fraction of k-carbide precipitates based on the hardness test results . detailed deformation behavior of the steel with various morphologies of k-carbide precipitates has been investigated by TEM and correlated with tensile properties . observation of microstructure of same area after each step also analyzed using EBSD to understand the mechanism of deformation behavior 
international audienceThis study addresses the microstructure , plastic flow and fracture behavior of a laboratory Al - containing low density Fe-0.3C-6.7Mn-5.9Al medium Mn steel , intercritically annealed at either <nUm> ° C or <nUm> ° C , after cold rolling . both resulting materials present an unordinary bimodal duplex microstructure made of coarse d-ferrite grains and fine - grained ( FG ) { a-ferrite + retained austenite } regions . tensile tests at room temperature and at − <nUm> ° C and charpy impact tests showed that for both materials , each microstructural region presents its own fracture mechanisms and a specific ductile - to - brittle transition . A transition from brittle cleavage to ductile fracture is observed for coarse d-ferrite grains , while FG regions present a transition from interfacial fracture to ductile fracture . the overall impact behavior seems to be driven by that of d-ferrite grains 
purpose . the estimation of heat temperature influence and degree of hot reduction of carbon steel on the size of grain austenite at making of railway wheels . methodology . the material for research was carbon steel , mark <nUm> with carbon content of <nUm> and <nUm> % , selected from the fragments of railway wheels . the size of grain austenite depending on a temperature ( from <nUm> to <nUm> <nUm> oC ) and degrees of hot deformation ( <nUm> − <nUm> % ) was determined . the size of grain was determined under a light microscope with the use of quantitative metallography methods . findings . the use of cooling in the process of hot reduction of the railway wheel will allow dispergating the structure of austenite on large distances from the surface of the rim . the reason for this is that the volumes of metal after cooling have an increased strength and will be exposed in less degree to the plastic deformation . to compare the cooling layers near-by with the surface of rim , they are more warmed-up in internal volumes of metal . In the conditions of continuity of plastic deformation distribution , having a high temperature , they will be exposed to the reduction on the large total degree of deformation . In consequence of the resulted decisions more even austenitic structure must be formed on the section of rim of railway wheel . to obtain the effect of disperse grain of austenite at making of the whole - rolled railway wheels it is necessary to decrease the heat temperature of billet under rolling or increase the degree of reduction on the lasts stages of shape - generating deformation . the pause by duration of <nUm> min . after reduction of <nUm> % at a temperature <nUm> oC is sufficiently for processes completion of dynamic and static recrystalization of austenite carbon steel of the railway wheel . originality . increase of plastic deformation degree , especially in the central volumes of rim is accompanied by the decrease of heterogeneity of austenitic structure on his section . the mechanism of disperse structure of austenite is based on slow down of development processes of recrystallization in carbon steel at the metal reduction temperature decrease of elements in the railway wheel when they are formed on a rolling mill . practical value . temperature decrease of hot reduction of billets in the conditions of flatting mill from <nUm> − <nUm> oC to <nUm> <nUm> oC is accompanied by decrease of size grain of austenite from a <nUm> − <nUm> mark to <nUm> − <nUm> in the different elements of the railway wheel 
during continuous casting of steel , the delta-ferrite to austenite phase transition occurs following solidification . it is of great industrial significance to gain a better understanding of the nature of this reaction because product quality is in large measure determined by events occurring during and shortly following solidification . moreover , the exact way in which delta-ferrite transforms to austenite may influence the subsequent transformation of austenite to ferrite , by which much of the mechanical properties of the steel is determined . relatively little attention has been devoted to the delta-ferrite to austenite phase transition in the past , in part because of the difficulty of making in-situ observations at the high temperature . the recent development of high - temperature laser - scanning confocal microscopy has provided new opportunities to observe in-situ high temperature phase transformations and this technique has been employed in the present study . the analysis should impact on some aspects of the steel production industry . high - temperature LSCM provides new opportunities for research in casting technology as well as high - temperature phase - transformation studies 
this thesis highlights the role of phase interfaces on phasetransformations in metallic materials . the deviation from localequilibrium at the moving phase interface has been analysed interms of solute drag theory and finite interface mobility . inparticular the planar growth of proeutectoid ferrite fromaustenite in steel has been studied . the deviation from localequilibrium is caused by dissipation of gibbs energy bydiffusion inside the phase interface and interface friction . inthe analysis the interface is divided into three zones and thethermodynamic and kinetic properties are assumed to varycontinuously across the interface . A new model suitable formulticomponent alloys is developed . the model reduces to thefamiliar solute drag model by cahn under simplifyingconditions . it was demonstrated how the interface model couldbe combined with a method for calculating the volume diffusionin both the growing and parent phases . with this combination ofprocedures the changes in local conditions at the interface , asthe growth rate changes due to long - range diffusion , could bedemonstrated for the case of continuous cooling in an Fe - nialloy . the critical limit for massive transformation in the Fe - niand Fe-C systems was calculated and found to lie well below theT0 line for both systems . the calculated limit for Fe-Ni wascompared with a recent experimental study and reasonableagreement was found . for the Fe-C system the limit calculatedwith the present model was compared with a phase - field model.The two approaches showed qualitatively the same behaviour andthe quantitative difference was due to different assumptions onhow properties vary across the interface . finally , an attempt to simulate the partitionless growth offerrite in austenite in the Fe-Ni-C system was performed . inthe applied model the dissipation of gibbs energy inside theinterface and in the nickel spike ahead of the migratinginterface were accounted for . the long - range diffusion ofcarbon in austenite was treated with an approximate analyticalgrowth equation . A continuous change from paraequilibriumconditions and quasi-paraconditions could be shown in anisothermal section of the Fe-Ni-C phase diagram . partitionlessgrowth starts in a parabolic fashion but slows down . for alloysoutside the limit for quasiparaconditions partitionless growthis predicted to stop abruptly while for alloys inside thatlimit growth approaches a second parabolic growth law . however,the latter case should not be expected in practise because ofimpingement effects.NR <nUm> 
abstract : the effect of thermal processing ( TMP ) parameters on grain growth in a low C- Mn steel and a C- Mn steel microalloyed with Nb , Ti and V were compared as part of a wider study on grain growth in microalloyed steels . the grain growth rate was found to be low at low temperatures and short soaking times , but increased significantly with both increasing temperature and time . the activation energy q , the grain growth equation constants n and A were found to be higher in the microalloyed steel than the plain C-Mn steel . A constitutive model for predicting austenite grain growth in the low C-Mn steel and the microalloyed steel has been developed . the predictive potential of the model was in good agreement with the experimental data 
© <nUm> elsevier inc. high carbon steels with dual phase structures of martensite and austenite have considerable potential for industrial application in high abrasion environments due to their hardness , strength and relatively low cost . to design cost effective high carbon steels with superior properties , it is crucial to identify the effect of chromium ( Cr ) on the stability of retained austenite ( RA ) and to fully understand its effect on solid - state phase transition . this study addresses this important knowledge gap . using standard compression tests on bulk material , quantitative x-ray diffraction analysis , nano-indentation on individual austenitic grains , transmission electron microscopy and electron backscatter diffraction – based orientation microscopy techniques , the authors investigated the effect of Cr on the microstructure , transformation behaviour and mechanical stability of retained austenite in high carbon steel , with varying Cr contents . the results revealed that increasing the Cr % , altered the morphology of the RA and increased its stability , consequently , increasing the critical pressure for martensitic transformation . this study has critically addressed the elastoplastic behaviour of retained austenite – and provides a deep understanding of the effect of small additions of Cr on the metastable austenite of high carbon steel from the macro- to nano-level . consequently , it paves the way for new applications for high carbon low alloy steels 
purpose : present work corresponds to the research on the kinetic of phase transformation of undercooled austenite of 38MnCrNi6-4-4 hypoeutctoid steel . the kinetic of phase transformation of under cooled austenite of investigated alloy was presented on CCT diagram ( continuous cooling transformation ) . also the methodology of a dilatometric samples preparation and the method of the critical points determination were described.Design / methodology / approach : the austenitising temperature was defined in a standard way i.e. 30-50 ° C higher than ac3 temperature for hypoeutectoid steels . the technology of full annealing was proposed for the iron based alloy . the CCT diagram was made on the grounds of dilatograms recorded for samples cooled with various rates . the microstructure of each dilatometric sample was photographed after its cooling to the room temperature and the sample hardness was measured.Findings : the test material has been hypoeutectoid steel . these steels represent a groups of alloy steels for quenching and tempering . the microstructure of test 38MnCrNi6-4-4 hypoeutectoid steel on CCT diagram changes depending on the cooling rate.Research limitations / implications : the new hypoeutectoid steel and new CCT diagram.Practical implications : the paper contains a description of one from a group of iron based model alloys with <nUm> - <nUm> % carbon content . according to PN-EN <nUm> standard this steel should have a symbol 38MnCrNi6-4-4.Originality / value : the new hypoeutectoid steel ( Mn-Cr-Ni iron based model alloy 
the present article is concerned with the theoretical and experimental study of the growth kinetics of allotriomorphic ferrite in medium carbon vanadium - titanium microalloyed steel . A theoretical model is presented in this work to calculate the evolution of austenite - to - allotriomorphic ferrite transformation with time at a very wide temperature range . At temperatures above eutectoid temperature , where allotriomorphic ferrite is the only austenite transformation product , the soft - impingement effect should be taken into account in the modeling . In that case , the gilmour et al. analysis reliably predicts the progress of austenite - to - allotriomorphic ferrite transformation in this steel . by contrast , since pearlite acts as a carbon sink , the carbon enrichment of austenite due to the previous ferrite formation is avoided , and carbon concentration in austenite far from the α / γ interface remains the same as the overall carbon content of the steel . hence , the soft - impingement effect should be neglected , and allotriomorphic ferrite is considered to grow under a parabolic law . therefore , assumption of a semi-infinite extent austenite with constant boundary conditions is suitable for the kinetics of the isothermal decomposition of austenite . an excellent agreement ( higher than <nUm> pct in R2 ) has been obtained between the experimental and predicted values of the volume fraction of ferrite in all of the ranges of temperature studied.Peer reviewe 
high carbon multiphase steels have attracted a lot of interest in industrial applications due to their high resistance against abrasion . the structure of these steels comprises of mixed martensitic structure , plates and laths , and retained austenite . the presence of retained austenite phase plays a very important role in properties of these steels . In this paper , two in-situ approaches have been used to study thermal and mechanical stability of retained austenite . by in-situ x-ray diffraction , the start and end of phase transformation temperatures of retained austenite were identified . for the sample with higher retained austenite percentage , phase transformation started at lower temperature because by increasing the percentage , required barrier energy for phase transformation will be reduced . also , different stages of phase transformation were investigated using a nano-indentation method . phase transformation from austenite to martensite was identified in the mechanical stress range of <nUm> – <nUm> mN 
prior studies on martensitic steel microstructures have either delineated the prior austenite grain boundaries via chemical etching or reconstructed the prior austenite grains from crystallographic orientations measured with electron backscattered diffraction ( EBSD ) . to appropriately validate the reconstruction algorithms , the EBSD data need to be collected on martensitic microstructures , where the prior austenite grain boundaries are delineated with techniques such as chemical etching that can serve as ground truth for comparison with the reconstructed prior austenite grains . In this article , the method of correlative microscopy is employed to collect scanning electron microscope ( SEM ) image and automated EBSD scan data from the same region of an appropriately etched steel specimen . the SEM images and automated EBSD scan data are presented for five different fields of view in the specimen . these datasets are analyzed and discussed in the accompanying article titled " correlative microscopy for quantification of prior austenite grain size in AF9628 steel " [1] . 
duplex and superduplex stainless steels are class of materials of a high importance for engineering purposes , since they have good mechanical properties combination and also are very resistant to corrosion . it is known as well that the chemical composition of such steels is very important to maintain some desired properties.In the past years , some works have reported that gama <nUm> precipitation improves the toughness of such steels , and its quantification may reveals some important information about steel quality . thus , we propose in this work the automatic segmentation of gama <nUm> precipitation using two pattern recognition techniques : optimum - path forest ( OPF ) and a bayesian classifier . to the best of our knowledge , this if the first time that machine learning techniques are applied into this area . the experimental results showed that both techniques achieved similar and good recognition rates 
AbstractExperiments have been conducted to study the variant selection phenomenon in the transformation from austenite to martensite in maraging - <nUm> steel . the transformation of austenite to martensite in maraging steels occurs at temperatures below <nUm> ° C depending on the alloy chemical composition . the transformation to martensite in these steels occurs regardless of the cooling rate . In these steels , the reverted austenite presents the same crystallographic texture of the mother austenite . samples of maraging - <nUm> were austenitized at <nUm> ° C inside a furnace attached to a tension test machine and then cooled in the furnace until the temperature of <nUm> ° C and <nUm> ° C . At these temperatures samples were deformed by compression with <nUm> % reduction in height . after deformation the applied force was removed and samples were cooled to room temperature in air . A second group of samples was subjected to the same austenitization and cooled until <nUm> ° C when it was applied a compressive stress with magnitude below the yield strength . with the force applied , the samples were air cooled to room temperature . EBSD analysis was performed in cross-section of samples to determine the influence of plastic deformation before the transformation and also the influence of a stress in the elastic regime in the selection of variants of martensite . measured pole figures were compared with calculated ones using the phenomenological martensite transformation concept associated with patel – cohen model 
laboratory double - deformation isothermal tests and multipass continuous cooling hot torsion tests were used to study the static recrystallization of austenite under isothermal and anisothermal conditions as well as to simulate the hot rolling of a <nUm> % v-microalloyed steel . characterization of the evolution of austenite microstructure was carried out . it has been verified that no - recrystallization temperature ( tnr ) approximately corresponds to the temperature where recrystallization starts to be incomplete during rolling . however , incomplete recrystallization is visually evident at temperatures <nUm> – <nUm> ° C below tnr , where grain elongation and increase in aspect ratio with temperature drop start to be significant . an accurate method to estimate the recrystallized fraction during hot rolling from stress – strain data and with no need of metallographic studies has been designed . the results of this method have been compared to metallographic measurements , the values of anisothermal fractional softening and the accumulated stress measured in the MFS plots at T < tnr . A pronounced austenite grain refinement has been detected in the first hot rolling passes after reheating , as grain size decreases from <nUm> mm to <nUm> mm in six passes . if the effect of grain size on recrystallization and precipitation is taken into account , the correlation of isothermal and continuous cooling tests as well as the relationship between SRCT and tnr or RLT temperatures can be better understood.Peer reviewe 
this research was carried out to determine the optimum condition of cutting speed , feed rate and point of angle while drilling the austenite stainless steel in order to get the good surface finish by using minimum quantity lubrication ( MQL ) . this project focuses on the drilling small hole on the austenite stainless steel by using milling machine . the aim of this project is to find the optimum condition in producing the good surface finish in drilling process with MQL . the taguchi OA from software minitab <nUm> was used to formulate the experiment , to analyze the three factors and also to predict the optimal choices of the drilling parameters . the selected cutting speeds for the drilling process are <nUm> m / min , <nUm> m / min and <nUm> m / min . for the feed rate , the parameters are <nUm> mm / rev , <nUm> mm / rev and <nUm> mm / rev . the third parameter that will be considered in this project is point of angle , and the parameters that will be used are about <nUm> ° , <nUm> ° and <nUm> ° . the machining processes were performed on the CNC milling machine . the surface roughness will be test by using surfcom <nUm> A . results shows that , the best surface roughness were obtained at the lower cutting speed , middle of feed rate and middle of point of angle . so , the optimum cutting speed , feed rate and point of angle are , <nUm> m / min , <nUm> mm / rev and <nUm> ° . the confirmation results show that , the predicted values and the measured values are quite close to each other 
the aim of this work is to evaluate the influence of the prior austenite grain size ( AGS ) on the austenite - to - pearlite isothermal decomposition in a Fe-C-Mn hypoeutectoid steel . due to the strong influence , grain boundaries have on pearlite transformation kinetics , morphological aspects of pearlite from two conditions with very different AGS were studied and characterized . results allow us to conclude that the formation of pearlite and ferrite are favored for small AGS values , whereas a larger AGS led to an increase in the total amount of pearlite volume fraction . furthermore , the average size of pearlitic colonies increased with increasing AGS , and it appears that the interlamellar spacing of the pearlite does not depend on AGS , but instead , is controlled by the isothermal decomposition temperature . finally , it was observed that the ratio between lamellar thickness of ferrite and cementite depended on AGS.Peer reviewe 
the effect of heating rate on the formation and decomposition of austenite was investigated on cold - rolled low carbon steel . experiments were performed at two heating rates , <nUm> ° C / s and <nUm> ° C / s , respectively . the microstructures were characterized by means of scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) and electron backscattered diffraction ( EBSD ) . experimental evidence of nucleation of austenite in α / θ , as well as in α / α boundaries is analyzed from the thermodynamic point of view . the increase in the heating rates from <nUm> ° C / s to <nUm> ° C / s has an impact on the morphology of austenite in the intercritical range . the effect of heating rate on the austenite formation mechanism is analyzed combining thermodynamic calculations and experimental data . the results provide indirect evidence of a transition in the mechanism of austenite formation , from carbon diffusion control to interface control mode . the resulting microstructure after the application of ultrafast heating rates is complex and consists of a mixture of ferrite with different morphologies , undissolved cementite , martensite , and retained austenite 
abstract . the growth behavior of <nUm> m steel was investigated on a gleeble - <nUm> simulator at the heating temperatures ranging from <nUm> K to <nUm> K and the heating rates ranging from <nUm> K / s to <nUm> K / s . the grain size of austenite was measured by using SISC IAS V8.0 image analysis software on olympus PMG3 microscope . the experimental results showed that the coarse grains of austenite occurred at the heating temperature above <nUm> K and the grain size of austenite increased with the increasing of heating temperature and decreased with the increasing of heating rate . the grain boundaries of austenite became flat and the angel of grain boundaries tended to <nUm> ˚ with the increasing of heating temperature . the grain boundaries of austenite increased and changed from flat to bend with the increasing of heating rate 
while earlier studies on transformation-induced-plasticity ( TRIP ) steels focusedon the determination of the austenite - to - martensite decomposition in uniformdeformation or thermal fields , the current research focuses on the determinationof the local retained austenite - to - martensite transformation behaviour in aninhomogeneous yet carefully controlled shear - loaded region of double - notchedTRIP and dual - phase ( DP ) steel samples . A detailed powder analysis has beenperformed to simultaneously monitor the evolution of the phase fraction and thechanges in average carbon concentration of metastable austenite together withthe local strain components in the constituent phases as a function of themacroscopic stress and location with respect to the shear band . the metastableretained austenite shows a mechanically induced martensitic transformation inthe localized shear zone , which is accompanied by an increase in average carbonconcentration of the remaining austenite due to a preferred transformation ofthe austenite grains with the lowest carbon concentration . At the laterdeformation stages the geometry of the shear test samples results in thedevelopment of an additional tensile component . the experimental strain fieldwithin the probed sample area is in good agreement with finite elementcalculations . the strain development observed in the low - alloyed TRIP steelwith metastable austenite is compared with that of steels with the same chemicalcomposition containing either no austenite ( a DP grade ) or stable retainedaustenite ( a TRIP grade produced at a long bainitic holding time ) . thetransformation of metastable austenite under shear is a complex interplaybetween the local microstructure and the evolving strain fields 
purpose : the purpose of the hereby work was to determine the influence of heating rate on the austenite formation range and to draw the time-temperature-austenitizing diagram at continuous heating for TRIP 41MnSi6-5 steel.Design / methodology / approach : the dilatometric analysis was applied as the basic investigation method . samples of the tested steel were heated to <nUm> ° C with various heating rates . changes in the relative elongation ( DL ) were recorded as a temperature function ( T ) , during heating . on the basis of analysing such dependencies , for each heating rate the critical temperatures were determined.Findings : it was found , that during heating of the 41MnSi6-5 steel the austenite formation starts at the higher temperature the faster isthe heating . it was observed , that directly before the start of the austenite formation , an unidentified ( in the presented here investigations ) transformation occurs in the investigated steel , causing its volume increase . research limitations / implications : the performed investigations indicate that during heating of elements of small thickness or cross-sections - within the critical temperature range - the method of their heating to the required temperature becomes very important . At short heating times incorrectly selected the heating conditions can be the reason of significant errors of the heat treatment . practical implications : the developed diagram : time-temperature-austenitizing , at a continuous heating ( CHT ) , can be a useful tool supporting the proper selection of heating parameters within the critical temperature range.Originality / value : the dependence of the heating rate and the temperature range , in which austenite is formed in the tested 41MnSi6-5 steel , was found . it was observed that heating of the investigated steel with rates lower than <nUm> ° C / s has an insignificant influence on the temperature range within which the austenite formation occurs 
the effect of cooling rate on the occurrence of retained austenite in a low carbon Si-Mn steel , used for welding\ud electrodes , is measured here by combining the sectioning of jominy test samples with the measurement of retained austenite\ud by x-ray diffraction . it was observed that the amount of retained austenite increases from zero , as the cooling rate is less\ud than <nUm> ° C / s , and the structure is mostly ferrite , to a maximum of <nUm> % , where the quantity of bainite is also maximum.\ud this information guides the post-rolling cooling cycle when welding grade is been rolled . the hard phases proportionality\ud with the amount of retained austenite allows , then , the use of x-ray diffraction as an end of the line equipment for quality\ud control , and also permits simplification of heat treatment before wire drawing 
this study forms part of the current research on modern steel groups with higher resistance to abrasive wear . In order to reduce the intensity of wear processes , and also to minimize their impact , the immediate priority seems to be a search for a correlation between the chemical composition and structure of these materials and their properties . In this paper , the correlation between prior austenite grain size , martensite packets and the mechanical properties were researched . the growth of austenite grains is an important factor in the analysis of the microstructure , as the grain size has an effect on the kinetics of phase transformation . the microstructure , however , is closely related to the mechanical properties of the material such as yield strength , tensile strength , elongation and impact strength , as well as morphology of occurred fracture . during the study , the mechanical properties were tested and a tendency to brittle fracture was analysed . the studies show big differences of the analysed parameters depending on the applied heat treatment , which should provide guidance to users to specific applications of this type of steel 
prior austenite grain size dependence of the low temperature impact toughness has been addressed in the bainitic weld metals by < i > in situ < / i > observations . usually , decreasing the grain size is the only approach by which both the strength and the toughness of a steel are increased . however , low carbon bainitic steel with small grain size shows a weakening of the low temperature impact toughness in this study . by direct tracking of the morphological evolution during phase transformation , it is found that large austenite grain size dominates the nucleation of intragranular acicular ferrite , whereas small austenite grain size leads to grain boundary nucleation of bainite . this kinetics information will contribute to meet the increasing low temperature toughness requirement of weld metals for the storage tanks and offshore structures 
residual stresses are introduced and modified during manufacturing and also by normal use . In this paper the changes in magnitude and distribution of residual stresses , attending the strain induced transformation of retained austenite are examined . tests were conducted on SAE <nUm> bearing steel with different amounts of retained austenite in a 5-ball-rod rolling contact fatigue machine . the tests were accelerated by applying well - controlled micro- indentations on the wear track and using rough balls . the magnitude and distribution of residual stresses and retained austenite were measured using x-ray diffraction techniques . the contribution of the residual stresses and amount of retained austenite to the rolling contact fatigue life is analyzed 
the temperature - dependent microstructure evolution and corresponding mechanical stability of retained austenite in medium-Mn transformation induced plasticity ( TRIP ) 0.17C-3.1Mn-1.6Al type steel obtained by thermomechanical processing was investigated using scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) , electron backscatter diffraction ( EBSD ) , and x-ray diffraction ( XRD ) techniques . specimens were deformed up to rupture in static tensile tests in the temperature range 20-200 ° C . it was found that an increase in deformation temperature resulted in the reduced intensity of TRIP effect due to the higher stability of retained austenite . the kinetics of strain - induced martensitic transformation was affected by the carbon content of retained austenite ( RA ) , its morphology , and localization in the microstructure . 
austenite grain size is an important influence factor for ductility of steel at high temperatures during continuous casting . thermodynamic and kinetics calculations were performed to analyze the characteristics of Ti(C,N) precipitates formed during the continuous casting of micro-alloyed steel . based on andersen - grong equation , a coupling model of second phase precipitation and austenite grain growth has been established , and the influence of second precipitates on austenite grain growth under different cooling rates is discussed . calculations show that the final sizes of austenite grains are <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> mm , respectively , under the cooling rate of <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> , and <nUm> *s-1 , when ignoring the pinning effect of precipitation on austenite growth . whereas , if taking the pinning effect into consideration , the grain growth remains stable from <nUm> ℃ , the calculated final sizes of austenite grains are <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> mm , respectively . the sizes of final Ti(C,N) precipitates are <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> nm , respectively , with the increase of cooling rate from <nUm> to <nUm> *s-1 . model validation shows that the austenite size under different cooling rates coincided with the calculation results . finally , the corresponding measures to strengthen cooling intensity at elevated temperature are proposed to improve the ductility and transverse crack of slab 
research was conducted to evaluate the effect of heavy cold rolling on microstructural evolution in an Fe – 10Ni – 7Mn ( wt. % ) martensitic steel . the chemical driving force for the strain - induced martensite to austenite reverse transformation was calculated using thermodynamic principles and a model was developed for estimating the effect of applied stress on the driving force of the martensite to austenite reverse transformation through heavy cold rolling . these calculations show that , in order to make a reverse transformation feasible , the applied stress on the material should supply the total driving force , both chemical and non-chemical , for the transformation . it is demonstrated that after <nUm> % cold rolling the required driving force for the reverse transformation may be provided . experimental results , including cold rolling and transmission electron microscopy images , are utilized to verify the thermodynamic calculations. < br / > < br / 
In this work , two thermo - mechanical treatments of eglin steel ( ES-1 ) are designed that leverage computational tools and focus on microstructural grain refinement and optimal epsilon-carbide ( fe2 : 4C ) precipitation . more specifically , ES-1 is presented as a candidate for integrated computational materials science and engineering ( ICME ) optimization , highlighting key areas of desired improvement ( e.g. , tensile strength , hardness , and toughness ) . the two primary areas addressed throughout this work are optimal epsilon-carbide precipitation strengthening and parent austenite grain refinement . the methods used to assess and improve both parameters are outlined . initially , the current state of ES-1 is outlined in terms of processing , microstructure , properties , and performance . it is then shown that the epsilon-carbide ground state crystal structure can be determined through a combination of first principle calculations and cluster expansions , which allows for the calculation and comparison of the ground state free energy surfaces of the various crystal structures proposed in literature . the ground state configuration of the most representative crystal structure is then used as the basis for monte carlo simulations to determine the finite temperature free energy surface . it is further shown that the epsilon-carbide free energy information can be coupled with existing thermodynamic and kinetic databases in order to develop a thermodynamically self - consistent phase field model ( PFM ) for the precipitation of epsilon-carbide . the PFM prognostic equations are outlined and methods for parallelization and evaluation are discussed . the model is then used to simulate the precipitation of epsilon-carbide at <nUm> K and the results are compared against experimental findings , showing good qualitative agreement . it is also shown that the precipitation of epsilon-carbide can be potentially optimized by using the PFM method in conjunction with derived system thermodynamics to develop epsilon-carbide precipitation process maps . leveraging existing kinetic and thermodynamic databases , the remaining carbide precipitation sequences ( i.e. , CFe3 , M23C6 , M6C , and VC ) are mapped , creating a robust precipitation map of ES-1 . selected tempering regimes are experimentally assessed and used for verification of the epsilon-carbide process map . furthermore , CALPHAD software is used to assess the thermodynamic stability of austenite in ES-1 in order to determine equal channel angular pressing ( ECAP ) procedures to refine parent austenite grain sizes , prior to transforming to martensite . ultimately , this work shows that through the application of a proper thermo - mechanical treatment that the properties and performance of ES-1 and similar alloys can be significantly improved and / or tailored 
by using torsional test , microstructural changes in commercially available C-Mnand vanadium microalloyed\ud steel were studied and changes in austenite on rolling through roughing and finishing mills were\ud estimated on the basis of preliminary static recrystallization determinations . amethodfor determining the\ud temperature at which recrvstaflization starts to be inhibited in microalloyed steel involving experimenta]\ud measurementsof the activation energy wasdeveloped . the influenoe of the activation energy on changes\ud in austenite brought about by rolling at an ordinary hot strip mill wasestablished by torsional simulation\ud of various thermal cycles , both at a roughing and at a finishing mill , austenite in C-Mnsteel wasfound to\ud be impossible to harden under these conditions - not even on rolling at a finishing mill at temperatures\ud close to ar3-as a result of its activation energy being constant at all temperatures . onthe other hand.\ud hardening of austenite in microalloyed steel wasreadily accomplished at a finishing mill at temperatures\ud belbw the critical recrystallization temperature ( <nUm> oC ) as the activation energy increases sharply below\ud such a temperatute.The authors are grateful for the financiai support of\ud the DGICYT - Spain(Project B89P - <nUm> ). peer reviewe 
A series of experiments using heat - treatment , carbon replication extraction , single - pass rolling in the stable γ region and in the ( g+ α ) two - phase region have been carried out to investigate the effect of Ti and Ti-Nb additions on the austenite grain coarsening behaviour , the alloy carbonitride particle size distribution , g-\u3e α transformation and the restoration characteristics of deformed y and α in a series of commercial slab cast <nUm> % C-1.45 % Mn base steels . the microalloyed steels consisted of <nUm> % Ti , <nUm> % Ti , 0.025Nb and <nUm> % Ti plus <nUm> % Nb . the Ti : N ratios in the three Ti - bearing steels were ~ <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> , respectively . experimental results showed that the effective austenite grain boundary pinning particles are NTi and NNbTi , and a Ti : N ratio near to the stoichiometric ratio ( 3.42 ) significantly increases the austenite grain coarsening temperature ( GCT ) , due to the substantially complete combination of Ti ( or Ti and Nb ) with N to form fine dispersed NTi ( or NNbTi ) particles . A high Ti level with Ti : N ratio in excess of the stoichiometric ratio resulted in a lower GCT due to the formation of coarse NTi and CTi2 S2 particles . although Nb alone does not strongly influence the GCT due to the low solution temperature of CNNb . Ti-Nb additions resulted in a higher GCT , which was still lower than that for a single Ti addition , because Nb decreases the stability of the Ti - rich nitride particles . A s expected , the g C T was a function of holding time at remperature and decreased with increasing holding time . solution treatment and hot rolling after slab casting resulted in a decrease of volume fraction of fine nitride particles , and a increase of mean particle size due to the solution of fine particles , thereby lowering GCT . re-precipitation of fine particles during rolling and air cooling only partly compensated for the loss of fine particles during reheating . Ti and Ti-Nb additions retarded recrystallization of deformed γ after rolling in the stable γ region ( \u3e ar3 ) , particularly at temperatures1100 ° C ) , the effect of Ti and Ti-Nb additions on retarding γ recrystallization was not significant , due mainly to the solution of grain boundary pinning particles of NTi and CNNbTi . In the temperature range ~ 950-1100 ° C , the retarding effect of Ti and Ti -Nb on γ recrystallization was remarkable , due to the re-precipitation of NTi or CNNbTi particles during or after rolling . when rolling at low temperatures ( \u3c ~ <nUm> ) , Ti and Ti-Nb additions substantially retarded γ recrystallization , by retarding the incubation time by 1-2 orders of magnitude and reducing the recrystallization rate , due to re-precipitated NTi in the Ti steel and re-precipitated and strain - induced CNNbTi particles in the Ti-Nb steel . for each steel there was a critical temperature for γ recrystallization ( Tc ) , below which recrystallization of deformed γ did not occur within holding times \u3c <nUm> sec , and the deformed γ grains retained a \u22pancaked\u22 shape . Ti and Ti-Nb additions raised Tc to ~ <nUm> ° C and <nUm> ° C , respectively , whereas Tc for the C-Mn steel was ~ <nUm> ° C . during and / or after rolling in the stable γ region , γ grains can be refined by recrystallization . further refinement can be achieved by decreasing the reheating temperature before rolling , lowering the rolling temperature or increasing the rolling reduction . however , there is a limiting extent of γ grain refinement possible by recrystallization . when rolling was performed at temperatures near the critical temperature ( Tc ) , deformation bands and deformed twin boundaries were produced in the γ grains . during the subsequent cooling , these boundaries acted as nucleation sites for a grains and contributed significantly to refinement . for the same reheating and rolling conditions in the stable γ region , Ti and ti- Nb additions to the base steel led to finer initial γ grains after reheating ; retardation of the recrystallization of deformed γ ; and suppression of the growth of recrystallized γ grains . these effects resulted in fine recrystallized γ grains , or high volume fractions of unrecrystallized γ , which transformed into fine α grains . these effects are due to undissolved and re-precipitated NTi particles in the Ti steel ; and to solute Ti and Nb atoms , and re-precipitated and strain induced CNNbTi particles in the Ti-Nb steel . the effect of Ti alone on retarding γ recrystallization was weaker than the effect of Ti-Nb additions in the two low Ti steels , due to the smaller amount of Ti than Ti plus N b , the smaller volume fraction of NTi compared with CNNbTi , and the finer initial γ grain size in the Ti steel compared with the Ti-Nb steel . however , Ti can exert a stronger effect than Ti-Nb additions on suppressing γ grain growth due to the higher stability of NTi than CNNbTi . rolling in the ( γ + α ) two - phase region accelerated the g-\u3e α transformation , and the presence of Ti or Ti plus N b enhanced this accelerative effect . In undeformed and lightly deformed samples , α grains nucleated mainly at γ grain boundaries during and / or after rolling . In samples rolled with reductions higher than the critical value , α grains nucleated at γ grain boundaries as well as interiors , mainly at the boundaries of deformation bands and deformed recrystallization twins . rolling in the ( γ + α ) region is a \u27hot-deformation\u27 of the ferrite , and restoration of deformed α occurred during and / or after rolling , by static and / or dynamic recovery , and static recrystallization . deformed α grains changed into cell and / or subgrains or equiaxed grains , depending on the degree of restoration , which in turn depended on rolling reduction , isothermal holding time and the effect of the Ti and Ti-Nb additions . recovery and recrystallization of deformed α proceeded rapidly in the C-Mn steel , but was sluggish in the Ti and Ti-Nb steels . the incubation time for recrystallization of deformed α was retarded by 1-2 orders of magnitude in the Ti and Ti-Nb steels compared with the base steel , resulting in higher volume fractions of cell and / or subgrain structures in the deformed α , and correspondingly higher a hardness in the Ti and Ti-Nb steels than in C - m n steel , for similar rolling and holding conditions . In the <nUm> % Ti steel , retardation of recovery and recrystallization of deformed α is due to the pinning effect of undissolved and re-precipitated NTi particles on dislocations , α grain and subgrain boundaries . In the Ti-Nb steel retardation of recovery and recrystallization of deformed α is due to solute - drag by N b and Ti atoms in solution , and the pinning effect of re-precipitated and / or straininduced CNNbTi particles on dislocations and α grain and subgrain boundaries . dual Ti and N b additions exerted a stronger retarding effect on restoration of deformed α than Ti alone , because of the higher volume fraction of CNNbTi in the Ti-Nb steel than NTi in the Ti steel . however , the effect of Ti on stabilizing straininduced substructures in deformed γ and accelerating nucleation of new α in deformed γ was stronger than that of Ti-Nb additions , especially in samples rolled with medium reductions ( 15-30 % ) . this observation is a result of the higher stability ofTiN than CNNbTi . Ti and Ti-Nb additions produced finer initial γ and α grains after reheating before rolling , and stabilized the strain induced substructures during and after rolling . these substructures resulted in more nucleation sites for new α grains . Ti and Ti-Nb additions also retarded recovery and recrystallization processes in deformed α , resulting in higher volume fractions of cells and α subgrains . In addition , Ti and Ti-Nb suppressed the growth of recrystallized α grains . all of these effects led to higher hardness ( and strength ) in the microalloyed steels than in the CM n steel after rolling in the ( γ + α ) two - phase region . rolling in the ( γ + α ) two - phase region is effectively \u27cold-working\u27 of austenite and during and after rolling , recrystallization did not occur in the deformed γ . restoration of deformed γ proceeded , in effect , by the strain - induced γ -\u3e α transformation . therefore , the microalloying additions of Nb and particularly Ti to a commercial <nUm> % C-1.4 % Mn base steel had a marked grain refining effect on both γ and α which is a result of grain growth inhibition and retardation of restoration of both γ and α , during the hot rolling process . the present work has clarified the role of micro-additions of Ti and Ti-Nb on the grain coarsening and hot rolling characteristics of a C-Mn base steel and makes original contributions in terms of both the linking of particle size distribution data to the grain coarsening behaviour during reheating , and the analysis of the effect of microalloy additions on the structure and properties developed during two phase rolling 
In heavy steel sections , fundamental properties such as strength and toughness are improved remarkably by refining and homogenizing the final ferrite microstructure . conventionally , the microstructural refinement of the final ferrite depends mainly on the austenite grain size , morphology and composition prior to the phase transformation as well as the cooling rate during the transformation . the production of heavy sections by universal - type rolling mills takes place at elevated temperature ( above <nUm> oC ) followed by low cooling rates ( < <nUm> oC / sec ) . these processing conditions produce coarse austenite grains and subsequently coarse ferrite grains in addition to other undesirable low temperature transformation products . In heavy steel sections , therefore , the refinement of the ferrite microstructure through modern TMP techniques is not feasible . the main objective of this study is to investigate the feasibility of refining the ferrite microstructure and eliminate the high-carbon low transformation products in heavy steel sections using the particle - stimulated nucleation , PSN , mechanism to enhance the nucleation of the intragranular ferrite , IGF.In this investigation , the MnS and Ti - oxide inclusions were used to promote the intragranular ferrite ( IGF ) nucleation mechanism in a typical ASTM A572 grade <nUm> steel . this work included the study of the decomposition behavior of coarse grained austenite and nucleation of the IGF as a function of very slow cooling rate . In addition , the effects of the inclusions type , size and volume fraction on the kinetics ( nucleation and growth ) of IGF were investigated . the main findings of this research were that the refining of ferrite microstructure is achieved , successfully , through enhancing the IGF nucleation with implementing of the PSN mechanism . additionally , the efficiency of the inclusion as an IGF nucleation site is mainly related to the inclusion size and type 
effects of intercritical annealing temperature on the microstructure and mechanical properties in low-carbon low - silicon TRIP ( transformation - induced plasticity ) steel containing aluminum and vanadium were investigated . the highest volume fraction of retained austenite of samples annealed at <nUm> K was approximately <nUm> % , while the product of strength and elongation of samples annealed at <nUm> K was up to <nUm> MPa % . In addition , the retained austenite transformation kinetics were measured by tensile test and fitted by the function y = <nUm> - e(-Ax) . the correlation between the experimental and fitting results was good . A in the function might be a more effective factor to measure the mechanical properties of TRIP steel than the volume fraction of retained austenite . ( c ) <nUm> elsevier B.V. all rights reserved.status : publishe 
thermal transport behavior of austenite stainless steel stripe ( 304 ) and the carbon nano-tubes ( CNTs ) films of varying thickness are studied using a micropipette thermal sensor . micropipette sensors of various tip sizes were fabricated and tested for the sensitivity and reliability . the sensitivity deviated by <nUm> for a batch of pipette coated under same physical vapor deposition ( PVD ) setting without being affected by a tip size . annealing , rubber coating and the vertical landing test of the pipette sensor proved to be promising in increasing the reliability and durability of the pipette sensors . A micro stripe ( <nUm> um × <nUm> um × <nUm> um ) of stainless steel , fabricated using focused ion beam ( FIB ) machining , was characterized whose thermal conductivity was determined to be <nUm> W / m-K at room temperature . similarly , the thermal characterization of CNT films showed the decreasing tendency in the thermal transport behavior with the increase in the film thickness 
In this thesis , the effects of strain path reversal on microstructure evolution , in terms of austenite grain subdivision and its recrystallisation as well as continuous cooling phase transformations , are investigated using an API X-70 grade microalloyed steel and two non-transforming austenitic model alloys , namely <nUm> L and fe-30 % wtNi with low and medium stacking fault energies ( SFE ) , respectively . the flow stress - strain and static recrystallisation behaviours of the X-70 steel were studied by monotonic and interrupted hot plane strain compression ( PSC ) tests . A fraction softening parameter calculated from " double - hit " PSC tests has been found to be capable of quick outlining the partial recrystallisation temperature region without complicated microstructure analysis involved . when hot deformed to medium strains ( evm = O.3 ~ <nUm> ) in austenite non-recrystallisation temperature region by forward - reverse torsion tests , simple strain path changes do not impose significant influence on the microstructural evolution of this X-70 steel through continuous cooling phase transformations . the post-deformation cooling rate is the more influential factor which determines the transformation mechanisms and microstructure , therefore mechanical properties of the final products . however , when subjected to large accumulative strains ( evm2.0 ) , the effects of multiple strain path reversals combined with small amplitude of each forward strain are found to be very profound on microstructural evolutions in austenite studied by hot cyclical torsion using two non-transforming model alloys . the formation of high angle boundaries ( HABs ) by austenite grain subdivision was significantly delayed by multiple strain path reversals in the fe-30wt % Ni model alloy with medium SFE . dynamic recrystallisation ( DRX ) of austenite in low SFE <nUm> L stainless steel was almost completely suppressed by multiple strain path reversals . dynamic strain induced transformation ( DSIT ) in the X-70 steel was also found to be inhibited by multiple strain path reversals when deformed to large strains between the ac3 and ar3 temperatures by similar hot cyclical torsions which were applied to model austenitic alloys . interpretations of the observations were made by correlating the behaviour of the austenite in X-70 steel , which could not be directly observed easily , to the observations on microstructural evolution made in the two model austenitic alloys . this provides better insights into the transformation mechanisms of DSIT process.EThOS - electronic theses online ServiceGBUnited kingdo 
today low - alloy steels with boron achieve high resistance to abrasive wear and high strength . these features are obtained by using advanced technology of manufacturing . this makes boron steels increasingly popular and their application more diverse . application of these steels can extend the lifetime of very expensive machine construction in many industries such as mining , the automotive , and agriculture industries . an interesting subgroup of these materials is steel with boron intended for heat treatment . these steels are supplied by the manufacturer after cold or hot rolling so that it is possible for them to be heat treated in a suitable manner by the purchaser for its specific application . very important factor that determines the mechanical properties of final product is austenite grain growth occurring during hot working process such us quenching or hot rolling . investigation of the effect of heating temperature and holding time on the austenite grain size is necessary to understand the growth behavior under different conditions . this article presents the result of investigation of austenite grain growth in selected low - allow boron steel with high resistance to abrasive wear and attempts to describe the influence of chemical composition on this process 
the ferrite / austenite transformation in austenitic stainless steel welds was modeled by considering the transformation as a diffusion - controlled process . A finite - difference method was used to solve the diffusion equations . the transformation behavior was evaluated for both isothermal aging and linear cooling over a range of cooling rates . the analysis provides information on the change in ferrite content as a function of heat treatment as well as the rate of the formation ( or dissolution ) of ferrite . the compositions of the ferrite and austenite are also obtained in the analysis . the results show that the approach to equilibrium can often be indirect and sometimes counter to intuition . the analysis is useful in providing information on the microstructural stability in austenitic stainless steel welds that can not be obtained experimentally 
an investigation of austenite grain growth of two bearing steel grades ; 100Cr6 and100CrMnMoSi8-4-6 is performed . austenitization treatments were performed between <nUm> ° C and <nUm> ° C for <nUm> minutes to <nUm> hours and the grain size was determined for each sample.Grain boundary etching was carried out using a water based , picric - acid etchant . Generally,100CrMnMoSi8-4-6 was harder to etch than 100Cr6 . therefore , a precipitation heattreatment was performed in order to facilitate etching of prior austenite grain boundaries in100CrMnMoSi8-4-6 . the precipitation treatment was found to be effective . however , theprecipitation heat treatment was not suitable for 100Cr6 as the grain size increased duringthe precipitation heat treatment.Light optical microscope equipped with a camera was utilized to take micrographs for grainsize evaluation . jeffries ' standard procedure according to ASTM E112-96 was used tomeasure the grain size . the results shows that the austenite grain size increases withtemperature and time as expected . the experimental data was fitted to a well - known graingrowth model . the model only worked for the temperatures investigated and could not bemade to fit different temperatures.Local grain size variation was studied and its influence on fatigue properties was evaluated.The result showed that variation in local grain size can significantly alter the fatigueproperties . the findings are only theoretical and have not been tested practically.Two different spheroidization heat treatments and one homogenization heat treatmentwere performed . both spheroidization heat treatments investigated exhibited similar grainsize . the homogenization heat treatment reduced the local grain size variation.Homogenization treatment prior to the spheroidization treatments did not increase ordecrease the grain size . the long heating , holding and cooling times in the secondspheroidization heat treatment is probably the reason for the lack of grain refinementcompared to the first spheroidization heat treatment . the grains had time to grow to theinitial austenite grain size during each cycle 
ferromagnetic single crystalline [100] , [110] , and [111] - oriented expanded austenite is obtained by plasma nitriding of paramagnetic <nUm> L austenitic stainless steel single crystals at either <nUm> or <nUm> ° C . after nitriding at <nUm> ° C , the [100] direction appears to constitute the magnetic easy axis due to the interplay between a large lattice expansion and the expected decomposition of the expanded austenite , which results in fe- and Ni - enriched areas . however , a complex combination of uniaxial ( i.e. , twofold ) and biaxial ( i.e. , fourfold ) in-plane magnetic anisotropies is encountered . it is suggested that the former is related to residual stress - induced effects while the latter is associated to the in-plane projections of the cubic lattice symmetry . increasing the processing temperature strengthens the biaxial in-plane anisotropy in detriment of the uniaxial contribution , in agreement with a more homogeneous structure of expanded austenite with lower residual stresses . In contrast to polycrystalline expanded austenite , single crystalline expanded austenite exhibits its magnetic easy axes along basic directions . 
the cumulative second - harmonic analysis of ultrasonic lamb wave has been performed to study the precipitation kinetics and microvoid initiation of ferritic Cr-Ni alloy steel during the ageing process . ageing of ferritic Cr-Ni alloy materials have been done at <nUm> K and <nUm> K for different degradation time intervals and air cooled . the results show that the normalized acoustic nonlinearity of lamb wave increases with the formation of fine precipitates at the early stage of ageing till about <nUm> h and keeps as a plateau with the precipitates dynamic balance for a long - term ageing , and then decreases gradually at the final holding time with the coarsening of precipitates and initiation of microvoids . the results also show that the variation of nonlinear lamb wave follows the same trend as that of hardness in materials . therefore , the cumulative second - harmonic of ultrasonic lamb waves has been found to be strongly sensitive to the precipitates behavior and microstructure evolution during the thermal ageing of ferritic Cr-Ni alloy steel . 
SPC ECHO+ has developed and during last years has used the complex technology NDT of stainless steel pipeline welds . this technology of quality assessment of first circuit pipe welds during in-service inspection at some russian NPP was accepted from the beginning <nUm> . the technology consists of three stages . At the first stage the conventional ultrasonic inspection is performed according to the up - date testing rules . At the second stage the expert testing of flaw areas detected at the first stage is performed . the result of the expert testing is the determination of real flaw parameters . for this purpose the augur system with FT - SAFT treatment is used . At the third stage the strength specialists calculate the danger rate of detected flaws and its affect on the weld strength and residual resource . during the last four years ( 1997- <nUm> ) the <nUm> welds were inspected using the technology . all welds should to be repaired according to the old testing technology . <nUm> welds were allowed for further exploitation because they meet strength requirements . it was repaired <nUm> welds . all these welds after expert testing are monitored periodically . it allows to reduce ungrounded expensive weld repair significantly without decrease of operation safety . on the other hand , the reliability of most dangerous flaw detection such as cracks was increased . the accuracy of flaw height measurements for initial and repeated NDT is discussed . the examples of weld pipeline monitoring at acting NPP are cited 
the effect of isothermal tempering on retained austenite decomposition and carbide precipitation were investigated in a medium-carbon low - alloy bainitic steel . high - resolution dilatometry was used to perform isothermal tempering at <nUm> ° C , <nUm> ° C and <nUm> ° C for different holding times up to <nUm> h . the decomposition of retained austenite , morphology and composition of carbides were investigated by analyzing the dilatometric curves and were confirmed through scanning and transmission electron microscopy observations . the decomposition behavior of retained austenite varied significantly as a function of the tempering temperature with a full decomposition observed at <nUm> ° C . it was also found that by increasing the tempering temperature from <nUm> ° C to <nUm> ° C , carbides precipitate approximately twice as fast , and evolve from M3C type to Cr7C3 and Cr23C6 after <nUm> h of tempering at <nUm> ° C . 
during continuous heating of a cold rolled low carbon ( LC ) steel a dilatometric anomaly has been detected previous to the well\ud known ferrite - to - austenite transformation . this anomaly is due to the dislocation annihilation and the texture change that accompany\ud the recrystallization process.The authors acknowledge the financial support from the\ud european union through the european coal and steel\ud community programme ( ECSC-7210-PR-368 ) and from\ud the spanish ministerio de ciencia y tecnologi ´ a ( special\ud action MAT 2002-10810-E ) . F.G. caballero would like\ud to thank the spanish ministerio de educacio ´ n y ciencia\ud for the financial support in the form of a ramo ´ n y cajal\ud contract ( programa RyC <nUm> ) . T . de cock would also like\ud to express his gratitude to the consejo superior de investigaciones\ud cienti ´ ficas ( CSIC ) for financial support in the\ud form of a Ph.D. research grant ( I3P program ). peer reviewe 
AbstractNowadays thermal forming processes of steel are state of the art in industrial applications . nevertheless , the influences of thermal induced phase - transformation on residual stresses and strength have not been fully observed.Times needed for transformation are affected by the initial austenite grain size , while the prevailing peak temperature influences austenite grain growth . higher temperatures lead to larger austenite grains , leading to increased times for transformation.In order to get an embraced understanding of such effects numerical simulations of phase - transformations are mandatory . In this paper simulations of thermal forming processes , using S355 steel , are presented . different continuous-cooling-transformation-diagrams ( cct – diagrams ) of specific austenite grain sizes for temperatures between transformation point AC3 and melting temperature are implemented in the model . it is shown that resulting magnitudes of residual stresses vary between <nUm> N / mm2 and <nUm> N / mm2 . finally an approach for the impact on relevant peak temperatures in the heat affected zone is outlined 
precipitation , driving and pinning forces . abstract . the austenite static recrystallization kinetics at several temperatures and the recrystallization-precipitation-time- temperature ( RPTT ) diagrams of a medium-carbon vanadium microalloyed steel have been determined for a strain ε = <nUm> . unlike many other studies carried out previously on V microalloyed steels , the recrystallized fraction against time curves showed the formation of a double plateau that indicates two stages of inhibition of recrystallization due to the formation of different types of strain induced precipitates . this work makes use of transmission electron microscopy to study the nature and size distribution of these precipitates capable of inhibiting recrystallization . the values of driving and pinning forces for static recrystallization are calculated and an analysis of the relationship between the net balance of these forces , the precipitation state and the progress or inhibition of the recrystallization is accomplished . A value of driving force that decreases as recrystallized fraction grows during isothermal holding time is estimated and helps to interpret the behavior of austenite after deformation 
abstract . the influence of thermomechanical parameters on the microstructure and retained austenite characteristics in a hot rolled Al-Si-Mn transformation induced plasticity ( TRIP ) steel based on dynamic transformation of undercooled austenite was investigated , in an effort to produce a desired microstructure and better control retained content . the results show that strain rate had a minor effect on the microstructure , but the volume fraction of retained austenite decreased with increasing strain rate . decreasing coiling temperature caused a decrease in volume fraction of retained austenite and decrease in the size of bainitic ferrite platelets . increasing the isothermal holding time during bainite treatment , the volume fraction of retained austenite first gradually increased then decreased . moreover , the deformation of undercooled austenite not only can influenc the transformation of bainite , but also can refine the grain size of bainite , increase the chemical and mechanical stabilization of retained austenite 
this study deals with the hot deformation of TRIP - assisted multiphase steels . these steels consist typically of bainite and retained austenite grains dispersed in a ferritic matrix . the austenite , which is metastable at room temperature , transforms to martensite during straining , bringing about the TRIP effect , which improves the strength - ductility balance of these steels . this work investigates the effect of a prior deformation in the intercritical temperature range on the mechanical properties and work hardening behaviour of these TRIP - assisted multiphase steels . several deformation levels in the ferrite - austenite domain were applied during the thermo - mechanical scheme . results show that work - hardening is strongly enhanced when the specimens were sufficiently deformed in the intercritical temperature range . this study also shows that the beneficial influence of the prior deformation is more related to the TRIP phenomenon than to the strain - hardening of the ferritic matrix . these experiments prove that a displacive transformation such as the martensitic transformation is highly influenced by the dislocation density within the parent phase.Anglai 
AbstractThe main goal this work is to evaluate the occurrence of the constituents and microphases observed in as-received API X80 pipe through the microstructures transformed from rich-carbon remaining austenite obtained via heat treatments . these heat treatments comprised austenitization at <nUm> ° C for <nUm> minutes , followed by annealing at <nUm> ° C , <nUm> ° C , <nUm> ° C and <nUm> ° C for <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> minutes and then cooling in water or still air . the effects of the increase in annealing parameters were : <nUm> ) the increase of microhardness values of the MA constituents and martensite islands , <nUm> ) the grain size of both ferritic phase and the martensite islands were increased , <nUm> ) the rise in the mean free path of ferrite and <nUm> ) the microstrains of samples were decreased . the cooling rates influenced significantly the transformation of carbon - rich remaining austenite to hard constituents and several microphases . after annealing at <nUm> ° C during <nUm> min followed by quenching , the morphology of the MA constituents and its microhardness values were compatible for both heat - treated and as-received conditions 
purpose : the aim of the paper is to determine the effect of the isothermal holding temperature in a bainitic transformation range on a fraction of retained austenite for a new - developed medium-carbon TRIP steel containing Nb and Ti microadditions . design / methodology / approach : the thermo - mechanical processing was carried out by a multi-stage compression test using the gleeble thermomechanical simulator . the steel was subjected to <nUm> variants of processing with an isothermal bainitic transformation temperature in a range from <nUm> to <nUm> ° C . identification of structural constituents was done using microscopic observations and x-ray diffraction . to determine the fraction of retained austenite the rietveld method was applied.Findings : it is possible to obtain a high fraction of retained austenite characterized by the high thermodynamic stability in a C-Mn-Si-Al steel containing <nUm> % C . the maximal fraction of austenitic phase equal above <nUm> % was obtained for the wide temperature range of isothermal holding from <nUm> to <nUm> ° C . the maximal carbon content in the retained austenite equal <nUm> wt. % is present for the temperature range from <nUm> to <nUm> ° C . below <nUm> ° C due to relatively low carbon diffusivity and high msg temperature , a part of austenite transforms to marteniste . above <nUm> ° C there is still a high fraction of retained austenite but it contains a lower C content.Practical implications : the obtained austenite volume fraction and carbon content in a γ phase determined as a function of isothermal holding temperature can be useful in optimization of thermo - mechanical processing conditions for medium-C TRIP steels.Originality / value : the research was performed on a new - developed medium-carbon Si-Al steel microalloyed with Nb and Ti . there is a lack of data on microstructure and stability of retained austenite in such advanced group of high - strength TRIP steels 
the effect of deformation temperature on Nb solute clustering , precipitation and the kinetics of austenite recrystallisation were studied in a steel containing 0.081C – 0.021Ti – <nUm> Nb ( wt % ) . thermo - mechanical processing was carried out using a gleeble <nUm> simulator . the austenite microstructure was studied using a combination of optical microscopy , transmission electron microscopy , and atom probe microscopy , enabling a careful characterisation of grain size , as well as Nb - rich clustering and precipitation processes . A correlation between the austenite recrystallisation kinetics and the chemistry , size and number density of Nb - rich solute atom clusters , and NbTi(C,N) precipitates was established via the austenite deformation temperature . specifically , we have determined thresholds for the onset of recrystallisation : for deformation levels above <nUm> % and temperatures above <nUm> ° C , Nb atom clusters recrystallisatio 
this study deals with the hot deformation of TRIP - assisted multiphase steels . these steels consist typically of bainite and retained austenite grains dispersed in a ferritic matrix . the austenite , which is metastable at room temp. transforms to martensite during straining , bringing about the TRIP effect , which improves the strength - ductility balance of these steels . this work studies the effect of a prior deformation in the intercrit . temp. range on the mech . properties and work hardening behavior of these TRIP - assisted multiphase steels . several deformation levels in the ferrite - austenite domain were applied during the thermomech . scheme . work - hardening is strongly enhanced when the specimens were sufficiently deformed in the intercrit . temp. range . this study also shows that the beneficial influence of the prior deformation is more related to the TRIP phenomenon than to the strain - hardening of the ferritic matrix . these expts . prove that a displacive transformation such as the martensitic transformation is highly influenced by the dislocation d. within the parent phase.info : eu - repo / semantics / publishe 
the primary objective of this work is to obtain fundamental insights on phase transformations , with focus on the reaustenitization process ( ???? transformation ) , of a cold - rolled ( CR ) semi-austenitic metastable stainless steel upon different isochronal conditions ( <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> ° C / s ) . for this purpose , an exhaustive microstructural characterization has been performed by using complementary experimental such as scanning and transmission electron microscopy ( SEM and TEM ) , electron backscattered diffraction ( EBSD ) , electron probe microanalysis ( EPMA ) , micro-hardness vickers and magnetization measurements . it has been detected that all microstructural changes shift to higher temperatures as the heating rate increases . the reaustenitization occurs in two - steps for all heating rates , which is attributed to the chemical banding present in the CR state . the ???? transformation is controlled by the migration of substitutional alloying elements across the austenite / martensite ( ¿ / ?? ) interface , which finally leads to ultrafine - grained reaustenitized microstructures ( 440?280 nm ) . the morphology of the martensite phase in the CR state has been found to be the responsible for such a grain refinement , along with the presence of ¿ - phase and nanometric Ni3(Ti,Al) precipitates that pin the austenite grain growth , especially upon slowly heating at <nUm> ° C / s.CCC and DSM would like to acknowledge the financial support from the ministerio de economia y competitividad ( project no. MAT2010 - <nUm> ) . CCC would like to thank the financial support from the consejo superior de investigaciones cientificas ( CSIC ) ( JAEPre_2011_01167 ) in the form of a JAE - predoc grant , co-funded by the european social fund and to the national science council of taiwan for the provision of a grant under the program “ summer program in taiwan <nUm> for spanish graduate students ” to undergo a research internship in the national taiwan university ( NTU ). peer reviewe 
the transformation mechanism of reverted austenite and the amount of reverted austenite during the tempering process in supermartensitic stainless steel have been investigated by x-ray diffraction ( XRD ) , electron backscattered diffraction ( EBSD ) , and a high - temperature laser scanning confocal microscope ( HTLSCM ) . the results indicate that the microstructure mainly consists of tempered martensite and reverted austenite . the reverted austenite nucleates uniformly at the sub-block boundary and prior grain austenite boundary . the amount of reverted austenite strongly relies on the tempering time , showing a positive correlation in the supermartensitic stainless steel . the crystallographic orientation relationship between reverted austenite and martensite meets the Kurdjumov-Sachs(K-S) relationship and the deviation angle is mainly concentrated at about <nUm> degrees . the mechanism of reverted austenite transformed from martensite is a diffusion mechanism . the growth kinetics of the reverted austenite are dominated by diffusion of the Ni element and there is no shear deformation of the martensite matrix in the in situ observation . it can be deduced that the reverted austenite is formed by nickel diffusion during tempering at <nUm> ° C for different tempering times . 
AMS <nUm> steel combines the tempering , hot hardness , and hardness retention characteristics of AISI M-50 steel with the corrosion and oxidation resistance of AISI 440C stainless steel . the five - ball fatigue tester was used to evaluate the rolling - element fatigue life of AMS <nUm> . double vacuum melting ( vacuum induction melting plus vacuum arc remelting , VIM - VAR ) produced AMS <nUm> material with a rolling - element fatigue life at least <nUm> times that of vacuum induction melting alone . the VIM - VAR AMS <nUm> steel balls gave lives from <nUm> to <nUm> times greater than VIM - VAR AISI M-50 steel balls . the highest level of retained austenite , <nUm> percent , was significantly detrimental to rolling - element fatigue life relative to the intermediate level of <nUm> percent 
the newly developed multiphase transformation - induced plasticity ( TRIP ) steels are of interest for industrial applications because of their excellent combination of high strength and ductility . their performance can be successfully controlled by designing an optimum balance in the volume fractions of ferrite , bainite and retained austenite . the characteristics of the retained austenite are considered to be the main key to achieving the desired final properties . against this background , the effects of retained austenite characteristics , such as volume fraction , carbon concentration , size and shape , on the behaviour of TRIP steels have been studied . the crystallographic orientation of the retained austenite was measured by electron backscattered diffraction ( EBSD ) . the effect of initial cold - rolling reduction on the microtexture development of the retained austenite was studied on an aluminium - containing TRIP steel . the results show that , by increasing the cold - rolling reduction before the final austempering , the main components of the face - centred cubic phase , i.e. copper , brass and goss , dominate the texture of the retained austenite . In contrast , the copper and goss components of the retained austenite are absent in the texture of lightly deformed sheets . the features of the preferred orientation of the retained austenite are discussed and explained in terms of the annealing texture of the recrystallized ferrite and bainite 
Os aAos maraging sAo materiais de ultra-alta resistAncia sendo composto principalmente por uma base quaternAria Ni-Co-Mo-Ti que possuem excelente tenacidade aliada com alta resistAncia mecAnica sendo utilizadas na indAstria bAlica , nuclear , componentes aeronAuticos , vasos de pressAo atA indAstria esportiva . uma de suas importantes aplicaAAes ã na utilizaAAo nos motores de histerese os quais necessitam de materiais com caracterAsticas de materiais magneticamente macios e elevada resistAncia mecAnica . foram realizados ensaios de microdueza para determinar propriedades mecAnicas nas diversas condiAAes de tratamento de envelhecimento e meios de resfriamento . com o objetivo de descobrir as fases presentes no material nas diversas condiAAes de tratamento foram realizadas ensaios por difraAAo de raios-X bem como analisar a macrotextura atravAs de FDOC ` s . A microtextura foi analisada atravAs da tAcnica de EBSD ( electron backscatterig diffraction ) com o intuito de estudar a influAncia da textura da austenita na martensita nas determinadas condiAAes de envelhecimento e meios de resfriamento . esta dissertaAAo ã de grande relevAncia para o desenvolvimento de novos produtos utilizando aAos maraging , pois determina as condiAAes que oferecem as propriedades mecAnicas , bem como as fases e textura presentes no material nas condiAAes de tratamento requeridas.Maraging steels are materials of ultra high strength mainly composed of a base quaternary Ni-Co-Mo-Ti which have excellent toughness combined with high mechanical strength being used in war industry , nuclear , aircraft components , pressure vessels up to the sports industry . one of its important applications is in use in hysteresis motors which require materials with characteristics of magnetically soft materials and high mechanical strength . microdueza tests were performed to determine mechanical properties in different treatment conditions of aging and cooling media . In order to discover the phases present in the material conditions in the various treatment trials were performed by x-ray diffraction as well as analyze the macrotexture through FDOC ` s . the microtexture was examined using the technique of EBSD ( electron diffraction backscatterig ) in order to study the influence of the texture of the austenite in the martensite aging in certain conditions and means of cooling . this thesis is of great importance for the development of new products using maraging steel , because it determines the conditions that provide the mechanical properties as well as the phases and texture present in the material conditions of treatment required 
refinement of austenite abstract . In the production with thin slab casting a serious problem of insufficient grain refinement and microstructural inhomogeneity has been found . In this paper attention has been paid to the austenite grain size changes in thin slab of a high strength Nb microalloyed steel under as-cast conditions and after first rolling pass . for comparison , the conventional thick slab was also investigated . it was found that although as-cast thin slab shows a smaller average austenite grain size than that of as cast thick slab ; the latter after reheating shows a much finer average austenite grain size . the first rolling pass at high temperature and with heavy reduction causes rapid recrystallization that contributes to austenite grain refinement 
purpose : the aim of the paper is to determine the influence of thermomechanical processing conditions on an austenite stability in a TRIP - aided microalloyed steel.Design / methodology / approach : the heat treatment and thermomechanical processing in a two - phase region to obtain ferritic – bainitic structures with the retained austenite in a low-carbon microalloyed steel were conducted . the heat treatment consisted of austenitizing of specimens at <nUm> ° C , oil cooling , isothermal holding in a temperature range from <nUm> ° C to <nUm> ° C and slow cooling to room temperature . A part of the specimens was forged with a degree of deformation of <nUm> % before cooling . optical and transmission electron microscopy were employed for structure observations . the retained austenite amount was determined by x-ray diffraction method.Findings : it was found that hot - working in the g+a range contributes to a considerable refinement of a ferritic matrix . the grain size of the α phase is about <nUm> um and its volume fraction equals from <nUm> to <nUm> % . the optimum structure containing <nUm> % fraction of retained austenite was obtained for the specimen forged in the two - phase region and isothermally held at a temperature of <nUm> ° C.Research limitations / implications : to determine with more detail the relationship between hot - working conditions and the stability of retained austenite investigations in a wider deformation temperature range should be carried out.Practical implications : the proposed thermomechanical treatment route can be useful in a development of the technology for TRIP - aided low-carbon microalloyed steels with a reduced silicon content.Originality / value : the design thermomechanical treatment conditions made for obtaining the <nUm> % fraction of retained austenite in a steel containing <nUm> % Si only in comparison to <nUm> % Si concentration used in TRIP - aided steels usually 
high - temperature laser scanning confocal microscopy ( HT LSCM ) has been applied to investigate the austenite - ferrite interface migration during cyclic phase transformations in situ in a Fe-Mn-C alloy . it has been found that during the cyclic phase transformations the transformation proceeds via the migration of existing austenite - ferrite interfaces . the interfaces migrate in a retraceable way . for the first time , the so - called stagnant stage has been observed directly . the new in situ observations show that the interface migration rates for interfaces in different grains are comparable with each other prior to soft impingement , while the equilibrium migration distances for different interfaces can be quite different , depending on the local grain size . the average interface velocities as measured by HT LSCM are in very good agreement with the velocities derived from dilatometric data , and those are predicted by a local equilibrium transformation model 
© <nUm> the authors . although high carbon martensitic steels are well known for their industrial utility in high abrasion and extreme operating environments , due to their hardness and strength , the compressive stability of their retained austenite , and the implications for the steels ' performance and potential uses , is not well understood . this article describes the first investigation at both the macro and nano scale of the compressive stability of retained austenite in high carbon martensitic steel . using a combination of standard compression testing , x-ray diffraction , optical microstructure , electron backscattering diffraction imaging , electron probe micro-analysis , nano-indentation and micro-indentation measurements , we determined the mechanical stability of retained austenite and martensite in high carbon steel under compressive stress and identified the phase transformation mechanism , from the macro to the nano level . we found at the early stage of plastic deformation hexagonal close - packed ( HCP ) martensite formation dominates , while higher compression loads trigger body - centred tetragonal ( BCT ) martensite formation . the combination of this phase transformation and strain hardening led to an increase in the hardness of high carbon steel of around <nUm> % . this comprehensive characterisation of stress induced phase transformation could enable the precise control of the microstructures of high carbon martensitic steels , and hence their properties 
abstract . ferrite grain refinement by hot rolling mostly above ae3 being followed by an ultra-fast cooling has been investigated . an emphasis has been paid on the interval , dt , between the finish of rolling and the start of water spray cooling of which cooling rate is more than <nUm> ° c*s-1 . when dt was nearly equal to zero , ultra-fine ferrite of about <nUm> or <nUm> mm in grain diameter was obtained for <nUm> to <nUm> mm thick <nUm> % C-1 % Mn steel sheets near sheet surfaces or in thickness center regions respectively , although the grain size at dt of <nUm> s was about <nUm> mm in both regions . the ferrite grains were almost equiaxed and surrounded by high angle boundaries . this grain refinement is likely to be caused by an increased number of nucleation sites for the transformation from austenite to ferrite due to the ultra-fast cooling . such a grain refinement mechanism is discussed in terms of prior - austenite structures deduced by the misorientation distribution function analysis 
abstract . the effect of austenite grain size on the austenite to ferrite transformation temperature and different ferrite morphologies and growth behaviour in one Nb - microalloyed ( HSLA ) steel has been investigated . three different austenite grain sizes were selected and cooled for obtaining austenite to ferrite and growth behaviour of ferrite . moreover , samples with specific austenite grain size have been quenched , partially , for investigation of the microstructural evolution . the optical microscopy observation suggested that the nucleation site of ferrite is on edge and inside of austenite grains in nb- microalloyed steels . micrographs of different ferrite morphologies show that at high temperatures , where diffusion rates are higher , grain boundary ferrite nucleates both at the edge and corner of austenite grains and grows into both austenite grains . As the temperature is lowered and the driving force for ferrite formation increases , intragranular sites inside the austenite grains become operative as nucleation sites and suppress the grain boundary ferrite growth . with more undercooling,intragranular ferrites are seen to nucleate and grow more extensively , indicating the beginning of displacive transformation . furthermore , growth rate of intragranular ferrite shows that by increasing of austenite grain size , the growth rate of intragranular ferrite increases extensively and growth rate of grain boundary ferrite decreases . the growth kinetics of grain boundary ferrite shows that this transformation is controlled by the diffusion of carbon in the austenite ahead of the interface 
stress corrosion cracking tests were conducted in <nUm> % ClNa solution by using SNCM439 steel specimens which have three different prior - austenite grain sizes , d = <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> mm . the fracture surfaces obtained were analyzed from a viewpoint of fractal geometry the results obtained are summarized as follows : ( 1 ) the crack growth rate , da / dt , increased with increasing the stress intensity factor , K , and with decreasing prior - austenite grain size,d . ( 2 ) the grain boundary fracture area , φ , decreased with increasing K . At a given K level , φ increased with increasing d . ( 3 ) the profiles of stress corrosion cracks had the character of fractal . the relevant fractal dimension , d , was about <nUm> in the region c where the intergranular cracking was predominant , while it was aout <nUm> in the region b where the mixed feature of intergranular and transgranular cracking appeared . ( 4 ) the fractal analysis explained the dependence of da / dt on d 
this technical brief is the extension of our previous work developed by zhang et al. ( <nUm> , " effects of process parameters on white layer formation and morphology in hard turning of AISI52100 steel , " ASME J. manuf . sci . eng. , <nUm> , p . <nUm> ) . we investigated the effects of sequential cuts on microstructure alteration in hard turning of AISI52100 steel . samples undergone five sequential cuts are prepared with different radial feed rates and cutting speeds . optical microscope and x-ray diffraction ( XRD ) are employed to analyze the microstructures of white layer and bulk materials after sequential cutting processes . through the studies we first find out the increasing of white layer thickness in the sequential cuts . this trend in sequential cuts does work for different process parameters , belonging to the usually used ones in hard turning of AISI52100 steel . In addition , we find that the white layer thickness increases with the increasing of cutting speed , as recorded i n the literature . to reveal the mechanism of white layer formation , XRD measurements of white layers generated in the sequential cuts are made . As a result retained austenite in white layers is identified , which states that the thermally driven phase transformations dominate the white layer formation , rather than the severe plastic deformation in cuts . furthermore , retained austenite contents in sequential cuts with different process parameters are discussed . while using a smaller radial feed rate , the greater retained austenite content found in experiments is attributed to the generated compressive surface residual stresses , which possibly restricts the martensitic transformation 
the room - temperature duplex structure of duplex stainless steel is always metastable , which suggests that non equilibrium phase transformation can be further exploited for producing duplex stainless steel having the same chemical compositions and phase constitution but different microstructures . this work uses rapid solidification obtained duplex stainless steel to expand heat - treatment temperature range for achieving <nUm> / <nUm> duplex structure . research shows an equilibrium state for the phase constitution of duplex stainless steel after sufficiently long time annealing , and establishes the non-equilibrium kinetics diagram of ferrite - to - austenite transition in cold - rolled duplex stainless steel . it is then shown that the duplex stainless steel with about <nUm> % austenite phase can be prepared using different non-equilibrium thermal process , of which the yield strength and elongation vary in the ranges of 306-499 MPa and 20-33 % , respectively . the sample , which exhibits the best combination of yield strength ( <nUm> MPa ) and elongation ( <nUm> % ) , is attributed to the bimodal distribution of austenite grain size.Department of mechanical engineerin 
partitioning at phase boundaries of complex steels is important for their properties . we present atom probe tomography results across martensite / austenite interfaces in a precipitation - hardened maraging TRIP steel ( <nUm> Mn , <nUm> Ni , <nUm> Mo , <nUm> Ti , <nUm> Al ; at. % ) . the system reveals compositional changes at the phase boundaries : Mn and Ni are enriched while Ti , Al , Mo , and Fe are depleted . more specific , we observe up to <nUm> at. % Mn in a <nUm> nm layer at the phase boundary . this is explained by the large difference in diffusivity between martensite and austenite . the high diffusivity in martensite leads to a Mn - flux towards the retained austenite . the low diffusivity in the austenite does not allow accommodation of this flux . consequently , the austenite grows with a Mn - composition given by local equilibrium . the interpretation is based on DICTRA and mixed - mode diffusion calculations ( using a finite interface mobility ) 
double - deformation isothermal tests and multipass continuous - cooling hot torsion tests were used to study the evolution of austenite microstructures during isothermal and non-isothermal hot deformation of an Nb microalloyed steel . these tests , coupled with microstructural characterization , have verified that the no - recrystallization temperature ( tnr ) corresponds roughly to the temperature where recrystallization starts to be incomplete during rolling . an accurate method to estimate the recrystallized fraction during hot rolling based on stress - strain data , and which does not require metallographic studies , is proposed . the results of this method have been successfully compared to metallographic measurements , the values of non-isothermal fractional softening and the accumulated stress measured in the plots of mean flow stress ( MFS ) versus the inverse of temperature . A remarkable austenite grain refinement occurs in the first hot rolling passes after reheating . the correlation of isothermal and continuous cooling tests is better understood if the effect of grain size on recrystallization and precipitation is taken into account.Peer reviewe 
In industrial application , unintentional manufacturing line troubles often consequence in heating raw materials excessively , in terms of either time or temperature . one of the effects of such occurrence is a product with a variation of prior austenite grain size , even if after the heat treatment the end result is the same , martensite . the variation of the prior austenite grain size is believed to vary the end results of the martensite . this undesirable variation includes the variation of fatigue resistance , impact strength , yield strength , hardness , etc . this research studies the effect of the prior austenite grain size on the morphology of the martensite microstructure . the results show that within the typical industrial application of temperature and holding time set up , as holding time or the temperature increases , the prior austenite average diameter increases . the block and packet sizes in the martensite also increase . the variation of mechanical property dependence on the grain size is indeed due to the different characteristics reflected in the martensite morphology . with respect to the same area , smaller grain has more blocks and packets , which agrees with higher dislocation density verified with transmission electron microscopic evaluation 
summary . it was made a search for new and more accurate orientation relations between the crystal lattice in the pearlite and bainite austenite decomposition products . methods . it were used the methods : transmission electron microscopy , the micro- , mathematical matrix and stereographic analysis . the purpose of the research is with theoretical , numerical and experimental methods to set up to a <nUm> degree angular orientation relations between the lattices of ferrite and cementite in the austenite decomposition products in the temperature range <nUm> ... 700S . results . it was established a new , refined value for grids in the diffusion decay of γ → α + ( α + θ ) . practical significance . it was proposed a new oriented dependence and the corresponding double gnomonic projection with poles to planes α and θ phases , which can be used in patterns of crystallographic lattices relations studies at phase transitions , as well as the subsequent modeling of complex physical processes of structure formation in metals and binary systems 
In the last <nUm> years a new theory of martensitic transformations based on nonlinear elasticity has been developed and intensively studied by J.M. ball & R.D . james and others . microstructures are understood in the theory as minimizing sequences for the total free energy , and are conveniently described using young measures . for the case of the classical austenite - martensite interface , in which a pure phase of austensite meets a simple laminate of martensite , the formulae of the crystallographic theory of martensite for the orientation of the habit plane are recovered from the energy - minimization picture . the theory leads naturally to the prediction of more complex austenite - martensite interfaces , in which a pure phase of austenite meets a more complicated microstructure of martensite . the possible interfaces are computed in case that the martensite wells correspond to an orthorombic to monoclinic lattice transformation . besides the classical interfaces , with simple laminate of martensite , new possible interfaces are presented which correspond for a larger set of lattice parameters . then , for certain parameters , it can be concluded from the theory that possible interfaces are planes 
the investigation was carried out to examine the influence of temperature and times of austempering process on the maximum extend towhich the bainite reaction can proceed and the carbon content in retained austenite . it should be noted that a small percentage change in theaustenite carbon content can have a significant effect on the subsequent austempering reaction changing the volume fraction of the phasespresent and hence , the resulting mechanical properties . specimens were prepared from an unalloyed ductile cast iron , austenitised at 950oCfor <nUm> minutes and austempered by the conventional single - step austempering process at four temperatures between BS and MS , eg. , <nUm> , <nUm> and 400oC . the samples were austempered at these temperatures for <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> minutes and finally quenched toambient temperature . volume fractions of retained austenite and carbon concentration in the residual austenite have been observed byusing x-ray diffraction . additionally , carbon concentration in the residual austenite was calculated using volume fraction data of austeniteand a model developed by bhadeshia based on the McLellan and dunn quasi-chemical thermodynamic model . the comparison ofexperimental data with the T0 , T0' and ae3' phase boundaries suggests the likely mechanism of bainite reaction in cast iron is displacive rather than diffusional . the carbon concentration in retained austenite demonstrates that at the end of bainite reaction the microstructure must consist of not only ausferrite but additionally precipitated carbides 
the coupled influence of the initial metallurgical state and the heating rate to austenite on the occurrence of heterogeneous grain growth during austenitisation of an ASTM A213-T91 steel has been studied . to that aim , two - step thermal cycles were designed . In the first step , different starting metallurgical conditions were obtained by treating the as received material at <nUm> ° C for increasing times up to <nUm> h . In the second step , in situ austenitisation was performed by heating to austenite at rates of <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> ° C s-1 and then holding at <nUm> ° C for <nUm> ’ . two types of austenite grain structures were obtained after austenitisation , namely , homogeneous and heterogeneous . the homogeneous structure was characterised by a smooth size distribution of approximately equiaxed , normally grown grains . the heterogeneous structure , instead , exhibited the exaggerated growth of a few austenite grains embedded in a small to medium sized matrix . for the <nUm> ° C s-1 heating rate and all of the initial metallurgical states , only homogeneous grain growth was observed , whereas for the <nUm> ° C s-1 heating rate only heterogeneous grain growth was observed regardless the starting metallurgical condition . instead , the occurrence of homogeneous or heterogeneous grain growth after heating at <nUm> ° C s-1 was observed to be a function of the time of previous tempering . some explanations of the phenomenon are advanced taking into account the precipitation state of second phasesfinancial support of national science and technology agency\ud from argentina in the form of PICT <nUm> no <nUm> contract . CC , CGDA and ITC acknowledge\ud financial support of the spanish ministerio de economia e innovacion in the form of a coordinate\ud project ( ENE2009-13766-C04-01 ) in the energy area of plan nacional 2009Peer reviewe 
for the wide use of AISI D2 tool steel in machine parts , molds and automotive industry it is worth to investigate the effect of heat treatment process of AISI D2 tool steel on its impact energy at room temperature , microstructure , mechanical characteristics and microhardness . AISI D2 tool steel specimens were machined using both CNC milling and turning machines to the recommended standard in order to conduct the tensile , impact test , microhardness test and microstructure test ; all tests were performed before and after heat treatment process . four regimes of austenite temperature namely : <nUm> oC , <nUm> oC , <nUm> oC , and <nUm> oC were conducted . it was found that there is a prominent enhancement microhardness of <nUm> % at <nUm> oC ; also there is an enhancement on the impact energy of <nUm> % that achieved at the same temperature , finally the U.T.S was enhanced by <nUm> % at <nUm> oC 
torsion test rolling simulations have been performed in different conditions ( pass strain , interpass time ) for a v-microalloyed steel ( C = <nUm> ; V = <nUm> wt % ) . the accumulated stress ( ds ) in austenite at temperatures below the no - recrystallisation temperature ( tnr ) has been measured . the accumulated stress is directly related to the dislocation density . the ferrite grain size ( da ) obtained after hot rolling simulations for different conditions and a cooling rate of <nUm> K / s has been measured . da is found to be dependent on ds and on the austenite grain size prior to the austenite – ferrite transformation during cooling . on the other hand , a higher strain accelerates recrystallisation between passes , lowers the tnr value , and consequently leads to a smaller accumulated stress . it is seen that a minimum value of <nUm> MPa must be reached in order for da refinement to begin.Peer reviewe 
A model that describes the pearlite - to - austenite transformation during continuous heating in a eutectoid steel has been developed . the influence of structural parameters ( such as the interlamellar spacing and edge length of pearlite colonies ) and heating rate on the austenite formation kinetics has been experimentally studied and considered in the modeling . it has been found that the coarser the initial pearlite microstructure and the higher the heating rate , the slower the kinetics of austenite formation . moreover , both the start and finish temperatures of the transformation slightly increase as the heating rate does , bur the finish temperatures are more sensitive to that parameter . A good agreement ( with an accuracy higher than <nUm> pct in the square correlation factor ) between experimental and predicted values has been found.Peer reviewe 
In this study , the effect of tempering conditions on microstructure , grain size , and carbide phase compositions of spray - formed high - speed steel after quenching at <nUm> ° C was studied . the influence of carbide phase , size of carbides , and retained austenite content on secondary hardening of the steel was analyzed by field emission scanning electron microscope ( FESEM ) , transmission electron microscope ( TEM ) , electron backscattered diffraction ( EBSD ) , and differential scanning calorimetry ( DSC ) ; the hardness , microhardness of carbide , and bending strength were tested . the results show that M3C , M6C , M7C3 , and MC carbides may precipitate at different tempering temperatures and the transformation of the retained austenite can be controlled by tempering . the phase composition of carbides , microstructure , and retained austenite content strongly influences the performance characteristics of M42 high - speed steel after tempering . In contrast , the secondary carbides produced by tempering thrice at <nUm> ° C are mainly M6C carbides rich in W and Mo elements , and the content of retained austenite is effectively reduced . At this stage , the rockwell hardness reaches <nUm> HRC , bending strength reaches <nUm> MPa , and the properties and microstructure are optimal . 
reversed austenite transformation behavior plays a significant role in determining the microstructure and mechanical properties of heat affected zones of steels , involving the nucleation and growth of reversed austenite . confocal laser scanning microscope ( CLSM ) was used in the present work to in situ observe the reversed austenite transformation by simulating welding thermal cycles for advance 5Mn steels . No thermal inertia was found on cooling process after temperature reached the peak temperature of <nUm> ° C . therefore , too large grain was not generated in coarse - grained heat - affected zone ( CGHAZ ) . the pre-existing film retained austenite in base metal and acted as additional favorable nucleation sites for reversed austenite during the thermal cycle . A much great nucleation number led to the finer grain in the fine - grained heat - affected zone ( FGHAZ ) . the continuous cooling transformation for CGHAZ and FGHAZ revealed that the martensite was the main transformed product . martensite transformation temperature ( Tm ) was higher in FGHAZ than in CGHAZ . martensite transformation rate was higher in FGHAZ than in CGHAZ , which is due to the different grain size and assumed atom ( Mn and C ) segregation . consequently , the softer martensite was measured in CGHAZ than in FGHAZ . although <nUm> ~ <nUm> % austenite retained in FGHAZ , the possible transformation induced plasticity ( TRIP ) effect at <nUm> ° C test temperature may lower the impact toughness to some degree . therefore , the mean absorbed energy of <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> J in CGHAZ and <nUm> , <nUm> and <nUm> J in FGHAZ were exhibited at the same welding heat input . the more stable retained austenite was speculated to improve impact toughness in heat - affected zone ( HAZ ) . for these 5Mn steels , reversed austenite plays a significant role in affecting impact toughness of heat - affected zones more than grain size . 
austenite reversion during tempering of a Fe – <nUm> Cr – <nUm> C ( wt. % ) martensite results in an ultra-high-strength ferritic stainless steel with excellent ductility . the austenite reversion mechanism is coupled to the kinetic freezing of carbon during low - temperature partitioning at the interfaces between martensite and retained austenite and to carbon segregation at martensite – martensite grain boundaries . an advantage of austenite reversion is its scalability , i.e. changing tempering time and temperature tailors the desired strength – ductility profiles ( e.g. tempering at <nUm> ° C for <nUm> min produces a <nUm> GPa ultimate tensile strength ( UTS ) and <nUm> % elongation while <nUm> min at <nUm> ° C results in a UTS of ∼ <nUm> GPa with an elongation of <nUm> % ) . the austenite reversion process , carbide precipitation and carbon segregation have been characterized by x-ray diffraction , electron back - scatter diffraction , transmission electron microscopy and atom probe tomography in order to develop the structure – property relationships that control the material 's strength and ductility.Peer reviewe 
according to recent investigations , a huge difference exists in the mechanical stability of austenite between the grain - refined structure states obtained in reversion annealing at <nUm> – <nUm> ° C or at <nUm> ° C , in a 301LN type austenitic stainless steel . precipitation of chromium nitride occurring at these lower temperatures has been argued to be the factor reducing the stability . to prove this argument , a fine - grained , very stable austenitic structure was created at <nUm> ° C in <nUm> s , and subsequently annealed at lower temperatures between <nUm> and <nUm> ° C , up to <nUm> s . it was found that the subsequent annealing at <nUm> and <nUm> ° C resulted in prominent gradual decrease of the mechanical stability under tensile straining , detectable after <nUm> s annealing duration and continued until <nUm> s . only minimal grain growth occurred , which decreased the stability very marginally . the degree of the stability drop followed the predicted kinetics of the Cr2N precipitation with regards as its dependence on annealing duration and temperature . further , the tensile yield strength of the fine - grained structure increased slightly due to the annealing . the presence of nano-sized Cr2N particles was verified after <nUm> s holding at <nUm> ° C . these observations and predictions yield firm evidence for the imperative contribution of precipitation to the highly reduced mechanical stability of grain - refined austenite in this steel 
A confocal scanning laser microscope , equipped with a high temperature stage , was used for < i > in situ < / i > observation of the bainite to austenite transformation in a microalloyed high strength steel . austenite grain growth was observed and measured directly from <nUm> ° C to the peak temperature of <nUm> ° C during the heating process , as well as the subsequent cooling down to <nUm> ° C . the grain growth rate versus temperature was analysed . it was demonstrated that the austenite grains grew up simultaneously by means of grain boundary migration and ‘ grain swallowing ’ phenomena . the variation in grain growth rate was attributed to the presence of impeding precipitates , e.g. carbonitrides Nb,Ti(C,N) . the work also showed that coarsening and / or dissolution of carbonitride precipitates , above a certain temperature , led to a fast grain growth . the < i > in situ < / i > observation by confocal scanning laser microscope can provide valuable information on the austenite reformation and final microstructure of weldments 
transmission electron forward scatter diffraction and other characterization techniques were used to investigate the fine structure and the variant relationship of the martensite / austenite ( m / A ) constituent of the granular bainite in low-carbon low - alloy steel . the results demonstrated that the m / A constituents were distributed in clusters throughout the bainitic ferrite . lath martensite was the main component of the m / A constituent , where the relationship between the martensite variants was consistent with the nishiyama - wassermann orientation relationship and only three variants were found in the m / A constituent , suggesting that the variants had formed in the m / A constituent according to a specific mechanism . furthermore , the S3 boundaries in the m / A constituent were much longer than their counterparts in the bainitic ferrite region . the results indicate that transmission electron forward scatter diffraction is an effective method of crystallographic analysis for nanolaths in m / A constituents . 
the stability of austenite is one of the most dominant factors affecting the toughness properties of high Co-Ni steels such as aermet <nUm> and AF1410 . thus , the aim of this work was to get a deeper understanding on the impact of combined heat and cryogenic treatment on the stability of retained and reverted austenite . In order to characterize the evolution of the phase fraction of austenite during tempering at different temperatures and times , x-ray diffraction analyses were carried out . the stability of austenite , which was formed during tempering , was analyzed with dilatometric investigations by studying the transformation behavior of the austenite during cooling from tempering temperature down to − <nUm> ° C . additionally , transmission electron microscopy investigations were performed to characterize the chemical composition and phase distribution of austenite and martensite before and after tempering 
phenomena occurring in duplex lightweight steels under dynamic loading are hardly investigated , although its understanding is essentially needed in applications of automotive steels . In this study , quasi-static and dynamic tensile properties of duplex lightweight steels were investigated by focusing on how TRIP and TWIP mechanisms were varied under the quasi-static and dynamic loading conditions . As the annealing temperature increased , the grain size and volume fraction of austenite increased , thereby gradually decreasing austenite stability . the strain - hardening rate curves displayed a multiple - stage strain - hardening behavior , which was closely related with deformation mechanisms . under the dynamic loading , the temperature rise due to adiabatic heating raised the austenite stability , which resulted in the reduction in the TRIP amount . though the <nUm> ° c-annealed specimen having the lowest austenite stability showed the very low ductility and strength under the quasi-static loading , it exhibited the tensile elongation up to <nUm> % as well as high strain - hardening rate and tensile strength ( <nUm> MPa ) due to appropriate austenite stability under dynamic loading . since dynamic properties of the present duplex lightweight steels show the excellent strength - ductility combination as well as continuously high strain hardening , they can be sufficiently applied to automotive steel sheets demanded for stronger vehicle bodies and safety enhancement . 
the effect of prior - austenite grain size ( PAGS ) on bainitic ferrite ( BF ) morphology and effective grain size in a pipeline steel under an industrial cooling condition was investigated . with PAGSs of <nUm> mm and <nUm> mm , BF laths with a parallel morphology could be seen , while as the PAGS is increased to <nUm> mm or <nUm> mm , more interlocking BF microstructures were observed . detailed crystallographic analysis identified that intense BF variant selection occurs for the small - grained austenite , but due to the large austenite grain quantity , and thus the large total austenite grain boundary area per unit volume of the small - grained austenite , with the reduction of PAGS from <nUm> mm to <nUm> mm , the effective grain size of the transformed microstructure gradually decreases from <nUm> mm to <nUm> mm . the small - grained austenite transformation was dominated by one close - packed plane ( CP ) group , but for the larger austenite grain , different CP groups were observed to be adjacent to each other , producing the interlocking structure . A mechanism based on the carbon distribution near the BF / austenite interface is proposed to account for this difference 
we report evidence of a displacive phase transformation from retained austenite to martensite during preparation of quenched and partitioned steel micro-pillars by using a focused ion beam ( FIB ) technique . the BCC phase produced by the FIB damage was identified as martensite . the invariant - plane strain surface relief associated with the martensitic transformation was observed in the retained austenite phase immediately after a FIB scan of the surface with the ga+ ion beam . use of a low acceleration voltage appears to lower the probability of the phase transformation , while a decrease of the acceleration voltage will result in an increase of the total milling time required to prepare a micro-pillar . this report addresses challenges related to the preparation of austenite micro-pillars by a conventional FIB technique . 
the elastic anisotropy and heterogeneity effects of coarse - grained austenite on ultrasonic propagation significantly undermine the effectiveness of ultrasonic property - based fatigue damage evaluation . A discrete method based on electron backscatter diffraction ( EBSD ) was proposed to decouple the effects between coarse - grained structure and fatigue damage . an orientation - based damage index , local misorientation ( ML ) , was extracted and macroscopic and microscopic plastic deformations were characterized . the evolution of ultrasonic attenuation coefficient da was established with DML in grain scale . approximate downward parabolas was observed , and the peak value of da in <1 <nUm> 1>  orientation was found to be larger and more sensitive to the cyclic damage than that of <0 <nUm> 1>  and <0 <nUm> 1>  . the influences of the heterogeneous substructure and surface roughness were discussed respectively . 
the concept of phase reversion involving severe cold deformation of metastable austenite to generate strain - induced martensite , followed by temperature - time annealing sequence , was used to obtain varying grain size from nanograined / ultrafine - grained ( NG / UFG ) to coarse - grained ( CG ) regime . this concept was used to obtain “ high strength - high ductility ” combination in nano / ultrafine - grained ( NG / UFG ) austenitic stainless steel . using this concept , the objective of the study is to elucidate the dependence of grain size on deformation mechanisms and deformation - induced microstructural changes . the objective was accomplished by combining depth - sensing nanoindentation experiments conducted at various strain rates , and interrupted tensile testing at various strain and post-mortem analyses of deformed Fe-17Cr-7Ni ( AISI 301LN ) austenite alloy using transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) . In the high strength NG / UFG steel , deformation twinning contributed to excellent ductility , while in the low strength coarse - grained ( CG ) steel , ductility was also good , but due to strain - induced martensite , implying clear distinction and fundamental transition in the deformation behavior of NG / UFG and CG austenitic stainless steels . the study underscores that irrespective of the grain structure and operating deformation mechanisms ( twinning versus strain - induced martensite ) , the generic nature of strain hardening is unaltered . In the NG / UFG structure , there was marked increase in stacking faults and twin density at high strain rates , and high strains . TWIP effect was observed in NG / UFG steel , whereas TRIP effect was evidenced in CG alloy . the observed change in the deformation mechanism with change in grain size is attributed to increased stability of austenite with decrease in grain size , and is explained in terms of austenite stability - strain energy relationship . the insights on the relationship between grain structure ( and strength ) and deformation mechanisms are envisaged to be important in providing a new direction for the futuristic design of high strength - high ductility NG / UFG materials such as austenitic stainless steel . 
In this research , in situ high - temperature electron backscattered diffraction ( EBSD ) mapping is applied to record and analyze the migration of the α / γ interfaces during cyclic austenite - ferrite phase transformations in a medium manganese steel . the experimental study is supplemented with related 3D phase field ( PF ) simulations to better understand the 2D EBSD observations in the context of the 3D transformation events taking place below the surface . the in situ EBSD observations and PF simulations show an overall transformation behavior qualitatively similar to that measured in dilatometry . the behavior and kinetics of individual austenite - ferrite interfaces during the transformation is found to have a wide scatter around the average interface behavior deduced on the basis of the dilatometric measurements . the trajectories of selected characteristic interfaces are analyzed in detail and yield insight into the effect of local conditions in the vicinity of interfaces on their motion , as well as the misguiding effects of 2D observations of processes taking place in 3D . 
international audienceThe effect of the metallurgical state of austenite ( undeformed vs. deformed vs. deformed + recrystallised ) on the properties of the austenite to bainite transformation were investigated thanks to thermal ( gleeble simulations ) and thermomechanical ( hot torsion ) treatments . No obvious influence of the state of austenite was found , using electron backscatter diffraction , on the resulting microtexture . advantages and drawbacks of using misorientation angle histograms vs. axis - angle pair distribution are discussed regarding investigations of local variant selection . for an austenite grain size higher than about <nUm> um , a strong effect of the transformation temperature was evidenced , bainite formed at lower temperature ( <nUm> ° C ) exhibiting a microtexture close to that of lath martensite in the same steel 
purpose : the aim of the paper is to determine the influence of isothermal bainitic transformation temperature on a fraction of retained austenite for a new - developed C-Mn-Si-Al-Nb-Ti TRIP - type steel.Design / methodology / approach : the thermo - mechanical processing was realized in a multi-stage compression test by the use of the gleeble <nUm> thermomechanical simulator . the steel was subjected to six variants of processing with an isothermal bainitic transformation temperature in a range from <nUm> to <nUm> ° C . identification of phase composition was achieved using microstructure observations and x-ray diffraction . to determine the fraction of retained austenite the rietveld method was applied.Findings : the maximum fraction of retained austenite equal up to <nUm> % can be obtained for the temperatures of isothermal bainitic transformation from <nUm> to <nUm> ° C , while the maximum carbon content in the γ phase equal <nUm> wt. % is present at the temperature of <nUm> ° C . below <nUm> ° C due to high ms temperature , the largest grains of retained austenite located in the ferritic matrix transform to marteniste . In a temperature range from <nUm> to <nUm> ° C , the msg temperature has a negative value , stabilizing the retained austenite.Research limitations / implications : to determine in detail the influence of isothermal bainitic transformation conditions on a fraction of retained austenite , the knowledge of the effect of isothermal holding time is also important.Practical implications : the obtained microstructures and especially retained austenite fraction dependent on an isothermal bainitic transformation temperature can be useful in optimization of thermo - mechanical processing conditions of C-Mn-Si-Al TRIP - type steels.Originality / value : combined colour etching and x-ray diffraction methods were applied for microstructure identification of modern group of TRIP steels predicted to use in the automotive industry 
approved for public release ; distribution is unlimitedThe objective of warm rolling M-50 bearing steel is microstructural refinement which may lead to increases in rolling contact fatigue life . A consequence of this final hardening is that the austenitizing temperature used in the final hardening cycle should be reduced . this is because warm rolling leads to faster dissolution of finer soluble carbides at the austenitizing temperature . this thesis effort determined the temperature decrease that warm rolling allows in austenitizing to produce a microstructure of finer grain and carbide size but equivalent carbide dissolution . here , this has been inferred by measurement of the volume fraction of retained austenite in the as-hardened microstructure , retained austenite being a function of the amount of carbides taken into solution during austenitization . it was found that the standard austenitizing temperature of <nUm> degrees C used to harden stock M-50 can be reduced by <nUm> centigrade degrees with warm - rolled M050 steel.http : / / archive.org / details / effectofpriorwar00cameLieutenant , united states nav 
this paper investigates the deformation mechanisms and plastic behavior of austenite and ferrite phases in duplex stainless steel alloys <nUm> and <nUm> under chip formation from a machine turning operation . SEM images and EBSD phase mapping of frozen chip root samples detected a build-up of ferrite bands in the stagnation region , and between <nUm> and <nUm> pct , more ferrite was identified in the stagnation region compared to austenite . SEM images detected micro-cracks developing in the ferrite phase , indicating ferritic build-up in the stagnation region as a potential triggering mechanism to the formation of built-up edge , as transgranular micro-cracks found in the stagnation region are similar to micro-cracks initiating built-up edge formation . higher plasticity of austenite due to softening under high strain is seen responsible for the ferrite build-up . flow lines indicate that austenite is plastically deforming at a greater rate into the chip , while ferrite shows to partition most of the strain during deformation . the loss of annealing twins and activation of multiple slip planes triggered at high strain may explain the highly plastic behavior shown by austenite 
abstract . In the last <nUm> years a new theory of martensitic transformations based <nUm> non-linear elasticity has been developed and intensively studied by J.M. ball & amp ; R.D . james and others . microstructures are understood in the theory as minimizing sequences for the total free energy , and are conveniently described using young measures . for the case of the classical austenite - martensite interface , in which a pure phase of austen - site meets a simple laminate of martensite , the formulae of the crystallographic theory of martensite for the orientation of the habit plane are recovered from the energy - minimization picture . the theory leads naturally to the prediction of more complex austenite - martensite interfaces , in which a pure phase of austenite meets a more complicated microstructure of martensite . the possible interfaces are computed in case that the martensite wells corresporid to an or - thorombic to nionoclinic lattice transformation . besides the classical interfaces , with simple laminate of martensite , new possible interfaces are presented which correspond for a larger set of lattice parameters . then , for certain parameters , it can be concluded from the theory that possible interfaces are planes . <nUm> 
the deformation - induced phase transformation of metastable austenite to martensite is accompanied by macroscopic plastic strain and results in significant work hardening and the delayed onset of necking . steels that exhibit such transformation - induced plasticity ( TRIP ) effect possess high strength & ndash ; ductility ratios and improved toughness . since the stability of the retained austenite ( RA ) phase is the rate controlling mechanism for the TRIP effect , the factors affecting the chemical and mechanical stability of RA in CMnSi TRIP steels are discussed . it was suggested that chemical stability plays a more important role at low strains , whereas other factors become responsible for RA behavior at higher strains . the importance of optimizing the processing parameters to achieve the desirable level of austenite stability is highlighted . finally , the influence of mechanical testing conditions and the interaction between the phases during tensile testing are also detailed 
the technological importance of ferrous alloys rests to a large extent on their relatively low cost and on their ability to achieve desirable strength - ductility combinations . the attainment of superior properties depends to a large degree on the phase transformations to and from austenite that occur during processing . from a scientific standpoint , ferrous alloys have been and continue to be benchmark materials from which solid – solid phase transformations understanding , broadly considered , was first formulated and developed . since pioneering studies began in the 1880s , significant advances in this understanding have been made in view of developments such as the first Fe-C phase diagram ( 1900 ) , x-ray diffraction ( 1920s ) , T-T-T diagrams ( 1930s ) , classical nucleation - and - growth theory ( 1940s ) , theories of martensite ( 1950s ) , and electron microscopy ( 1950s ). peer reviewe 
purpose : of this paper is the effect of the soft annealing of initial microstructure of the 6Mn16 steel on the kinetics of the austenite formation during next intercritical annealing.Design / methodology / approach : analytical TEM point analysis with EDAX system attached to philips CM20 was used to evaluate the concentration of Mn , Ni and Cr in the microstructure constituents of the multiphase steel and mainly bainite- martensite islands.Findings : the increase in soft annealing time from 1-60 hours at <nUm> ° C increases Mn partitioning between ferrite and cementite and new formed austenite and decreases the rate of the austenite formation during next intercritical annealing in the ( a+g ) temperature range at <nUm> and <nUm> ° C . the general equations for carbide dissolution and austenite formation in intercritical temperature range were established.Research limitations / implications : the final multiphase microstructure can be optimised by changing the time / temperature parameters of the intercritical heating in the ( a+g ) temperature range.Originality / value : the knowledge of partitioning of alloying elements mainly Mn during soft annealing and intercritical heating is very important to optimise the processing technology of intercritical annealing for a given amount of the austenite 
dual - phase and transformation - induced plasticity (TRIP)-assisted multiphase steels are related families of high - strength formable steels exhibiting excellent mechanical characteristics . this study shows how a ferrite-bainite-martensite microstructure containing retained austenite can improve the mechanical properties of a cold - rolled low-carbon , low - silicon steel . such a multiphased microstructure is obtained by a heat treatment involving intercritical annealing followed by a bainite transformation tempering . depending on the heat - treatment parameters , the samples present a variety of microstructures . due to the presence of retained austenite , some samples exhibit a TRIP effect not anticipated with such a low silicon content . A composite strengthening effect also results from the simultaneous presence of a ductile ferrite matrix with bainite and martensite as hard second phases . A true stress at maximum load of <nUm> MPa and a true uniform strain of <nUm> can be obtained by forming a ferrite-bainite-martensite microstructure containing up to <nUm> pct of retained austenite . these properties correspond to a favorable evolution of work hardening during plastic deformation 
this research project describes the study of gaseous thermochemical treatment of nitriding duplex stainless steel ( DSS ) by using a tube furnace . DSS is widely used in various industries such as petrochemical , chemical processing plant and others.\ud however , this material experiences wear and hardness failure during service.Therefore , new development of low temperature nitriding has been introduced to improve the surface properties of this material . the improvement of wear properties and hardness relies on the development of a hard layer on the surface . the nitriding was performed in a temperature range between <nUm> ° C , <nUm> ° C and <nUm> ° C for <nUm> and <nUm> hours . the gas composition used for this study was <nUm> % NH3+ <nUm> % N and <nUm> / <nUm> H3N + <nUm> % N2* the structural development was characterised using microhardness , x-ray diffraction ( XRD ) , optical microscope , scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) and wear resistance test . based on this study , at a constant temperature of450 ° C with <nUm> % ' H3N had produced highest thickness for expanded austenite with <nUm> urn for <nUm> hours treatment and increased to <nUm> urn for <nUm> hours treatment . this also led to a significant increase on top surface hardness about <nUm> HV and <nUm> HV for <nUm> and\ud <nUm> hours treatment , respectively . for XRD analysis , it clearly shows that bragg reflections ( peaks ) for nitrided samples are slightly shifted to lower <nUm> angles compared to untreated sample due to formation of expanded austenite . however , increased treatment temperature to <nUm> ° C with <nUm> % and <nUm> % ammonia can lead to the formation of chromium nitride precipitates in the nitrogen enriched layer , and thus deteriorate the corrosion resistance of material . it is hope that the study can contribute\ud to the improvement of surface engineering technology of this material for wide range application purposes 
the influence of plastic strain on the shape , size and crystallographic orientation of ferrite ( α ) grains formed at the grain boundaries of the deformed austenite ( γ ) was studied in a 0.17C-0.3Si-1.5Mn steel . specimens with a coarse γ grain size of <nUm> mm were compressed at <nUm> K and cooled at <nUm> K / s . when the plastic strain increased to <nUm> , the shape of α grains changed from plate like to equiaxed , and the average length of α grains decreased from <nUm> to <nUm> mm . however , the average length did not change in the larger plastic strains up to <nUm> . on the other hand , the average thickness of α grains was constant regardless of the plastic strain . the crystallographic orientations of the α grains formed at one γ grain boundary were almost the same when the plastic strain was smaller than <nUm> and the α grain shape was plate like . however , the orientations were widely distributed , and most of the α / α boundaries were high angle ones , when the plastic strain was larger than <nUm> and the α grain shape was equiaxed . the shape change and α grain refinement by the deformation resulted from the wide distribution of crystallographic orientations of α grains rather than from the increase in the nucleation rate . the wide distribution of crystallographic orientation of α grains is closely associated with the serrated austenite grain boundaries induced by the deformation 
abstract . the paper presents the influence of the grain size and a little higher Cr content on the kinetics of austenite phase transformations during continuous cooling of hypo-eutectoid steel . the kinetics of austenite phase transformations during continuous cooling were determined by means of analysis of the dilatometric curves and structure investigations . the influence of the austenite grain size and the higher Cr content was analysed in two hypo-eutectoid steels containing about <nUm> % C . one of them had , Cr content higher , by about <nUm> % . In both steels , the austenite grain size was changing insignificantly up to the austenitising temperature of about 950fl . above that temperature , the austenite grain size in carbon steel grew much quicker than that in the steel with Cr addition . the austenite grain in the Cr enriched steel was smaller than that in carbon steel and , in spite of that , the duration of cooled austenite transformations were several times longer . this means that the phase transformations are much more strongly influenced by the addition of chromium slowing down carbon diffusion in austenite , than by the austenite grain size . for each phase transformation in the examined steels , the activation energy of the transformation has been determined . the activation energy of all the phase transformations varied slightly with the increase of austenitising temperature . on the basis of the obtained results , curves of true isothermal transformations have been developed for the beginning of the phase transformations in both steels , related to infinitely quick cooling down to the transformation temperature 
A new technique based on the study of the transmitted neutron beam has been developed to study the low - temperature decomposition of austenite in a <nUm> wt. % C-3 wt. % mn-2 wt. % Si steel . experiments were conducted in which the neutron beam continuously passed through a specially designed layered sample , the temperature of which could be controlled to allow for a high - temperature austenization treatment followed by accelerated cooling to an isothermal transformation temperature in the range of 275-450 degrees C . it was possible to measure the volume fraction of the face - centred cubic ( fcc ) and body - centred cubic ( bcc ) phases and the carbon concentration of the fcc phase by characterizing the neutron bragg edges in the transmitted beam . this provides a technique for in situ continuous measurements on the decomposition of austentite . the technique has been validated by comparing the data with other experimental techniques such as dilatometry , quantitative optical metallography and room temperature x-ray diffraction . ( C ) <nUm> acta materialia inc. published by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved